README.md, before:

# HORUS Framework

**Hybrid Optimized Robotics Unified System**

HORUS is a modern Rust-based robotics framework designed for real-time performance, shared memory communication, and comprehensive system monitoring. Built for both research and production robotics applications.

## 🚀 Key Features

### **Real-Time Performance**
- **Production Latency**: 366ns-2.8μs (16B-120KB messages)
- **100-270x faster than ROS2**: Sub-microsecond messaging for robotics applications
- **Priority-Based Scheduling**: Deterministic execution order (0 = highest priority)
- **Lock-Free Communication**: Atomic operations with cache-line alignment
- **Built-in Ctrl+C Handling**: Reliable termination with proper cleanup

### **Developer Experience**
- **Simple Node API**: Clean `tick()` method with `init()` and `shutdown()` lifecycle
- **Macro-Based Development**: `node!` macro eliminates boilerplate code
- **Multi-Language Support**: Rust, Python, C with unified workflow
- **Built-in Logging**: Automatic pub/sub tracking with IPC timing
- **Unified CLI**: `horus` command for project management

### **Production Ready**
- **Memory-Safe Messaging**: Fixed-size structures prevent corruption
- **Cross-Process Communication**: POSIX shared memory with proper alignment
- **Performance Benchmarks**: Comprehensive latency testing and optimization
- **Dashboard Monitoring**: Web and terminal UI for real-time system monitoring

## 🔧 Installation

### Prerequisites

**Required:**
- Rust 1.70+ (install from [rustup.rs](https://rustup.rs))
  ```bash
  curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
  source $HOME/.cargo/env
  ```
- Linux (Ubuntu 20.04+, other distros supported)

**Optional:**
- Python 3.8+ for Python bindings: `sudo apt install python3 python3-pip`
- GCC/Clang for C bindings: `sudo apt install build-essential`

### Quick Install (Recommended)

**One command to install everything:**

```bash
git clone https://github.com/neos-builder/horus.git
cd horus
./install.sh
```

**What happens during installation:**
- ✅ Builds all packages in release mode (`cargo build --release`)
- ✅ Installs `horus` CLI to `~/.cargo/bin/`
- ✅ Installs runtime libraries to `~/.horus/cache/`
- ✅ Verifies installation and tests `horus` command

**After installation, you can create projects anywhere:**
```bash
cd ~/my_projects
horus new my_robot
cd my_robot
horus run  # Just works - no registry downloads needed!
```

### Verify Installation

```bash
# Check CLI is available
horus --version

# Check libraries are installed
ls ~/.horus/cache/
# Should show: horus@0.1.0, horus_core@0.1.0, horus_macros@0.1.0, horus_library@0.1.0
```

### Troubleshooting

**`horus: command not found`**
```bash
# Add to ~/.bashrc or ~/.zshrc
export PATH="$HOME/.cargo/bin:$PATH"
source ~/.bashrc
```

**Build fails with linker errors**
```bash
# Ubuntu/Debian
sudo apt install build-essential pkg-config libssl-dev

# Fedora/RHEL
sudo dnf install gcc gcc-c++ openssl-devel
```

**Libraries not found during `horus run`**
```bash
# Re-run installation
cd path/to/HORUS
./install.sh
```

### Uninstallation

To completely remove HORUS:

```bash
cd HORUS
./uninstall.sh
```

The script will:
- Remove CLI binary from `~/.cargo/bin/`
- Remove global library cache from `~/.horus/cache/`
- Ask before removing entire `~/.horus/` directory
- Preserve project-local `.horus/` directories

## 🏗️ Quick Start

### 1. Create a New Project
```bash
horus new my_robot
cd my_robot
```

### 2. Simple Node Example
```rust
use horus::prelude::*;

pub struct SensorNode {
    publisher: Hub<f64>,
    counter: u32,
}

impl Node for SensorNode {
    fn name(&self) -> &'static str { "SensorNode" }

    fn init(&mut self, ctx: &mut NodeInfo) -> Result<(), String> {
        ctx.log_info("SensorNode initialized");
        Ok(())
    }

    fn tick(&mut self, ctx: Option<&mut NodeInfo>) {
        let reading = self.counter as f64 * 0.1;
        let _ = self.publisher.send(reading, ctx);
        self.counter += 1;
        std::thread::sleep(std::time::Duration::from_millis(100));
    }

    fn shutdown(&mut self, ctx: &mut NodeInfo) -> Result<(), String> {
        ctx.log_info("SensorNode shutdown");
        Ok(())
    }
}

fn main() {
    let mut scheduler = Scheduler::new();

    scheduler.register(
        Box::new(SensorNode {
            publisher: Hub::new("sensor_data").expect("Failed to create hub"),
            counter: 0,
        }),
        0,           // Priority (0 = highest)
        Some(true)   // Enable logging
    );

    scheduler.tick_all().expect("Scheduler failed");
}
```

### 3. Run the Project
```bash
horus run --release
```

**Expected Output:**
```
Registered node 'SensorNode' with priority 0 (logging: true)
SensorNode initialized
[12:34:56.123] [IPC: 366ns | Tick: 12µs] SensorNode --PUB--> 'sensor_data' = 0.0
[12:34:56.223] [IPC: 370ns | Tick: 11µs] SensorNode --PUB--> 'sensor_data' = 0.1
```

## 📁 Project Structure

```
HORUS/
├── horus/                      # Main unified crate
├── horus_core/                 # Core framework implementation
│   ├── communication/          # Hub, shared memory (ShmTopic)
│   ├── scheduling/             # Scheduler
│   ├── core/                   # Node trait, NodeInfo
│   └── memory/                 # Shared memory management
├── horus_manager/              # CLI tool (horus command)
├── horus_daemon/               # Remote deployment daemon
├── horus_macros/               # node! procedural macro
├── horus_py/                   # Python bindings
├── horus_c/                    # C bindings
├── horus_library/              # Standard library and examples
│   ├── messages/               # Standard message types
│   ├── unies/snakesim/         # Uni: Snake game demo
│   ├── unies/tanksim/          # Uni: Tank simulation
│   └── tools/sim2d/            # 2D physics simulator
├── benchmarks/                 # Performance testing
└── docs-site/                  # Documentation website
```

## 🎮 CLI Commands

### Project Management
```bash
horus new <name>                # Create new project (interactive)
horus new my_robot -r           # Create Rust project
horus new my_robot -p           # Create Python project
horus new my_robot -c           # Create C project
horus new my_robot -m           # Create Rust project with macros
```

### Build and Run
```bash
horus run                       # Auto-detect and run
horus run main.rs               # Run specific file
horus run --release             # Build in release mode
horus run --build-only          # Build without running
horus run --clean               # Clean build cache
horus run --remote robot:8080   # Deploy to remote robot
```

### Package Management
```bash
horus pkg install <package>              # Install package
horus pkg install <package> -v 1.0.0     # Install specific version
horus pkg install <package> -g           # Install to global cache
horus pkg remove <package>               # Remove package
horus pkg list                           # List local packages
horus pkg list -g                        # List global cache
horus pkg list <query>                   # Search registry
```

### Environment Management
```bash
horus env freeze                         # Freeze to horus-freeze.yaml
horus env freeze -o custom.yaml          # Freeze to custom file
horus env freeze --publish               # Publish to registry
horus env restore horus-freeze.yaml      # Restore from file
horus env restore env_abc123             # Restore from registry ID
```

### Publishing
```bash
horus publish                   # Publish package to registry
horus publish --freeze          # Publish and generate freeze file
```

### Authentication
```bash
horus auth login --github       # Login with GitHub OAuth
horus auth generate-key         # Generate API key
horus auth whoami               # Show current user
horus auth logout               # Logout
```

### Dashboard
```bash
horus dashboard                 # Web dashboard (port 3000, auto-opens browser)
horus dashboard 3001            # Custom port
horus dashboard -t              # Terminal UI mode
```

## 🏗️ Core API

### Scheduler
```rust
use horus_core::scheduling::Scheduler;

let mut scheduler = Scheduler::new();

// Register nodes with priority and logging
scheduler.register(Box::new(my_node), priority, Some(logging));

// Run scheduler (blocks until Ctrl+C)
scheduler.tick_all()?;
```

**Methods:**
- `new()` - Create scheduler
- `register(node, priority, logging)` - Add node (priority: 0=highest)
- `tick_all()` - Run main loop with Ctrl+C handling
- `tick_node(&[names])` - Run specific nodes only
- `stop()` - Stop scheduler
- `is_running()` - Check if running

### Hub (Pub/Sub)
```rust
use horus_core::communication::horus::Hub;

// Create publisher/subscriber
let hub: Hub<f64> = Hub::new("topic_name")?;
let hub_custom: Hub<MyMsg> = Hub::new_with_capacity("topic", 2048)?;

// Publish
hub.send(42.0, ctx)?;  // With logging context
hub.send(42.0, None)?; // Without logging

// Subscribe
if let Some(msg) = hub.recv(ctx) {
    // Process message
}
```

**Performance:**
- 366ns for small messages (16B)
- 543ns for IMU data (304B)
- 1.58μs for LaserScan (1.5KB)
- 2.8μs for PointCloud (120KB)

### Node Trait
```rust
use horus_core::core::{Node, NodeInfo};

pub trait Node: Send {
    fn name(&self) -> &'static str;
    fn init(&mut self, ctx: &mut NodeInfo) -> Result<(), String> { Ok(()) }
    fn tick(&mut self, ctx: Option<&mut NodeInfo>);
    fn shutdown(&mut self, ctx: &mut NodeInfo) -> Result<(), String> { Ok(()) }
    fn get_publishers(&self) -> Vec<TopicMetadata> { Vec::new() }
    fn get_subscribers(&self) -> Vec<TopicMetadata> { Vec::new() }
}
```

### node! Macro
```rust
use horus_macros::node;

node! {
    MyNode {
        pub { output: f64 -> "output_topic" }
        sub { input: f64 <- "input_topic" }

        data {
            counter: u32 = 0,
        }

        init(ctx) {
            ctx.log_info("MyNode initialized");
            Ok(())
        }

        tick(ctx) {
            if let Some(value) = self.input.recv(ctx) {
                self.counter += 1;
                self.output.send(value * 2.0, ctx).ok();
            }
        }

        shutdown(ctx) {
            ctx.log_info("MyNode shutdown");
            Ok(())
        }
    }
}
```

## 🎯 Example Applications

### SnakeSim (Uni - Multi-Node Game)
```bash
cd horus_library/unies/snakesim/snake_scheduler
cargo run --release
```

**Architecture:**
- **KeyboardInputNode** (priority 0): Arrow key input
- **SnakeControlNode** (priority 2): Game logic
- **GUINode** (priority 3): Terminal rendering

### Sim2D Physics Simulator
```bash
cd horus_library/tools/sim2d
cargo run --release
```

Complete 2D robotics simulator with Bevy visualization and Rapier2D physics.

## 🔍 Monitoring

HORUS provides automatic monitoring through NodeInfo:

```rust
fn tick(&mut self, ctx: Option<&mut NodeInfo>) {
    if let Some(ctx) = ctx {
        // Automatic metrics tracking
        println!("Avg tick: {}μs", ctx.metrics().avg_tick_duration_ms * 1000.0);
        println!("Total ticks: {}", ctx.metrics().total_ticks);
        println!("Errors: {}", ctx.metrics().errors_count);
    }
}
```

**Metrics Available:**
- `total_ticks` - Total number of ticks
- `avg_tick_duration_ms` - Average tick time
- `max_tick_duration_ms` - Worst-case tick time
- `messages_sent` - Published messages
- `messages_received` - Subscribed messages
- `errors_count` - Error count
- `uptime_seconds` - Node uptime

## 🚀 Remote Deployment

Deploy to physical robots via HTTP:

```bash
horus run --remote 192.168.1.100:8080
```

**Process:**
1. Packages project as `.tar.gz`
2. POSTs to `http://ROBOT:8080/deploy`
3. `horus_daemon` receives and builds
4. Returns deployment ID + PID

**Start daemon on robot:**
```bash
cargo run --release -p horus_daemon
```

## 📦 Shared Memory

HORUS uses `/dev/shm` for zero-copy IPC:

```bash
# View shared memory regions
ls -lh /dev/shm/horus/

# Check space
df -h /dev/shm
```

**Configuration:**
- Default capacity: 1024 slots per topic
- Custom: `Hub::new_with_capacity(topic, 2048)`
- Location: `/dev/shm/horus/<topic_name>`

## 🧪 Multi-Language Support

### Python
```python
import horus

class SensorNode(horus.Node):
    def __init__(self):
        self.pub = horus.Hub("sensor_data")

    def name(self):
        return "PySensor"

    def tick(self, ctx):
        self.pub.send(42.0, ctx)
```

### C
```c
#include "horus.h"

void tick(NodeInfo* ctx) {
    Hub* hub = hub_new("sensor_data");
    hub_send_f64(hub, 42.0, ctx);
}
```

## 🎯 Use Cases

### Research & Education
- Clean API for learning robotics
- Built-in monitoring eliminates debugging complexity
- Complete examples demonstrate best practices

### Real-Time Systems
- Priority-based scheduling for timing guarantees
- Shared memory for microsecond latencies
- Thread-safe communication

### Production Robotics
- Reliable Ctrl+C handling and cleanup
- Comprehensive system monitoring
- Memory-safe message passing for 24/7 operation

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`
3. Commit changes: `git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`
4. Push to branch: `git push origin feature/amazing-feature`
5. Open Pull Request

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

## 🌟 Why HORUS?

| Feature | HORUS | ROS2 |
|---------|-------|------|
| **Latency** | **366ns-2.8μs** | ~50-500 μs |
| **Setup** | `register()` → `tick_all()` | Complex launch files |
| **Communication** | Shared memory | DDS/FastDDS |
| **Memory Safety** | Rust + fixed-size messages | C++ manual management |
| **Debugging** | Built-in dashboard | External tools (rviz/rqt) |
| **Learning Curve** | Simple `tick()` method | Complex lifecycles |

**HORUS: Real-time robotics made simple** 🤖

*Build faster. Debug easier. Deploy with confidence.*

Commit message:

Change license from MIT to Apache 2.0 and add CLA
- Update LICENSE from MIT to Apache License 2.0
- Add Contributor License Agreement (.github/CLA.md)
- Update README.md to reference Apache 2.0 and CLA
- Update CONTRIBUTING.md with CLA requirements

This change provides better patent protection, clearer contribution
guidelines, and maintains compatibility with the open source ecosystem
while protecting the project's IP interests.

README.md, after:

# HORUS Framework

**Hybrid Optimized Robotics Unified System**

HORUS is a modern Rust-based robotics framework designed for real-time performance, shared memory communication, and comprehensive system monitoring. Built for both research and production robotics applications.

## 🚀 Key Features

### **Real-Time Performance**
- **Production Latency**: 366ns-2.8μs (16B-120KB messages)
- **100-270x faster than ROS2**: Sub-microsecond messaging for robotics applications
- **Priority-Based Scheduling**: Deterministic execution order (0 = highest priority)
- **Lock-Free Communication**: Atomic operations with cache-line alignment
- **Built-in Ctrl+C Handling**: Reliable termination with proper cleanup

### **Developer Experience**
- **Simple Node API**: Clean `tick()` method with `init()` and `shutdown()` lifecycle
- **Macro-Based Development**: `node!` macro eliminates boilerplate code
- **Multi-Language Support**: Rust, Python, C with unified workflow
- **Built-in Logging**: Automatic pub/sub tracking with IPC timing
- **Unified CLI**: `horus` command for project management

### **Production Ready**
- **Memory-Safe Messaging**: Fixed-size structures prevent corruption
- **Cross-Process Communication**: POSIX shared memory with proper alignment
- **Performance Benchmarks**: Comprehensive latency testing and optimization
- **Dashboard Monitoring**: Web and terminal UI for real-time system monitoring

## 🔧 Installation

### Prerequisites

**Required:**
- Rust 1.70+ (install from [rustup.rs](https://rustup.rs))
  ```bash
  curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
  source $HOME/.cargo/env
  ```
- Linux (Ubuntu 20.04+, other distros supported)

**Optional:**
- Python 3.8+ for Python bindings: `sudo apt install python3 python3-pip`
- GCC/Clang for C bindings: `sudo apt install build-essential`

### Quick Install (Recommended)

**One command to install everything:**

```bash
git clone https://github.com/neos-builder/horus.git
cd horus
./install.sh
```

**What happens during installation:**
- ✅ Builds all packages in release mode (`cargo build --release`)
- ✅ Installs `horus` CLI to `~/.cargo/bin/`
- ✅ Installs runtime libraries to `~/.horus/cache/`
- ✅ Verifies installation and tests `horus` command

**After installation, you can create projects anywhere:**
```bash
cd ~/my_projects
horus new my_robot
cd my_robot
horus run  # Just works - no registry downloads needed!
```

### Verify Installation

```bash
# Check CLI is available
horus --version

# Check libraries are installed
ls ~/.horus/cache/
# Should show: horus@0.1.0, horus_core@0.1.0, horus_macros@0.1.0, horus_library@0.1.0
```

### Troubleshooting

**`horus: command not found`**
```bash
# Add to ~/.bashrc or ~/.zshrc
export PATH="$HOME/.cargo/bin:$PATH"
source ~/.bashrc
```

**Build fails with linker errors**
```bash
# Ubuntu/Debian
sudo apt install build-essential pkg-config libssl-dev

# Fedora/RHEL
sudo dnf install gcc gcc-c++ openssl-devel
```

**Libraries not found during `horus run`**
```bash
# Re-run installation
cd path/to/HORUS
./install.sh
```

### Uninstallation

To completely remove HORUS:

```bash
cd HORUS
./uninstall.sh
```

The script will:
- Remove CLI binary from `~/.cargo/bin/`
- Remove global library cache from `~/.horus/cache/`
- Ask before removing entire `~/.horus/` directory
- Preserve project-local `.horus/` directories

## 🏗️ Quick Start

### 1. Create a New Project
```bash
horus new my_robot
cd my_robot
```

### 2. Simple Node Example
```rust
use horus::prelude::*;

pub struct SensorNode {
    publisher: Hub<f64>,
    counter: u32,
}

impl Node for SensorNode {
    fn name(&self) -> &'static str { "SensorNode" }

    fn init(&mut self, ctx: &mut NodeInfo) -> Result<(), String> {
        ctx.log_info("SensorNode initialized");
        Ok(())
    }

    fn tick(&mut self, ctx: Option<&mut NodeInfo>) {
        let reading = self.counter as f64 * 0.1;
        let _ = self.publisher.send(reading, ctx);
        self.counter += 1;
        std::thread::sleep(std::time::Duration::from_millis(100));
    }

    fn shutdown(&mut self, ctx: &mut NodeInfo) -> Result<(), String> {
        ctx.log_info("SensorNode shutdown");
        Ok(())
    }
}

fn main() {
    let mut scheduler = Scheduler::new();

    scheduler.register(
        Box::new(SensorNode {
            publisher: Hub::new("sensor_data").expect("Failed to create hub"),
            counter: 0,
        }),
        0,           // Priority (0 = highest)
        Some(true)   // Enable logging
    );

    scheduler.tick_all().expect("Scheduler failed");
}
```

### 3. Run the Project
```bash
horus run --release
```

**Expected Output:**
```
Registered node 'SensorNode' with priority 0 (logging: true)
SensorNode initialized
[12:34:56.123] [IPC: 366ns | Tick: 12µs] SensorNode --PUB--> 'sensor_data' = 0.0
[12:34:56.223] [IPC: 370ns | Tick: 11µs] SensorNode --PUB--> 'sensor_data' = 0.1
```

## 📁 Project Structure

```
HORUS/
├── horus/                      # Main unified crate
├── horus_core/                 # Core framework implementation
│   ├── communication/          # Hub, shared memory (ShmTopic)
│   ├── scheduling/             # Scheduler
│   ├── core/                   # Node trait, NodeInfo
│   └── memory/                 # Shared memory management
├── horus_manager/              # CLI tool (horus command)
├── horus_daemon/               # Remote deployment daemon
├── horus_macros/               # node! procedural macro
├── horus_py/                   # Python bindings
├── horus_c/                    # C bindings
├── horus_library/              # Standard library and examples
│   ├── messages/               # Standard message types
│   ├── unies/snakesim/         # Uni: Snake game demo
│   ├── unies/tanksim/          # Uni: Tank simulation
│   └── tools/sim2d/            # 2D physics simulator
├── benchmarks/                 # Performance testing
└── docs-site/                  # Documentation website
```

## 🎮 CLI Commands

### Project Management
```bash
horus new <name>                # Create new project (interactive)
horus new my_robot -r           # Create Rust project
horus new my_robot -p           # Create Python project
horus new my_robot -c           # Create C project
horus new my_robot -m           # Create Rust project with macros
```

### Build and Run
```bash
horus run                       # Auto-detect and run
horus run main.rs               # Run specific file
horus run --release             # Build in release mode
horus run --build-only          # Build without running
horus run --clean               # Clean build cache
horus run --remote robot:8080   # Deploy to remote robot
```

### Package Management
```bash
horus pkg install <package>              # Install package
horus pkg install <package> -v 1.0.0     # Install specific version
horus pkg install <package> -g           # Install to global cache
horus pkg remove <package>               # Remove package
horus pkg list                           # List local packages
horus pkg list -g                        # List global cache
horus pkg list <query>                   # Search registry
```

### Environment Management
```bash
horus env freeze                         # Freeze to horus-freeze.yaml
horus env freeze -o custom.yaml          # Freeze to custom file
horus env freeze --publish               # Publish to registry
horus env restore horus-freeze.yaml      # Restore from file
horus env restore env_abc123             # Restore from registry ID
```

### Publishing
```bash
horus publish                   # Publish package to registry
horus publish --freeze          # Publish and generate freeze file
```

### Authentication
```bash
horus auth login --github       # Login with GitHub OAuth
horus auth generate-key         # Generate API key
horus auth whoami               # Show current user
horus auth logout               # Logout
```

### Dashboard
```bash
horus dashboard                 # Web dashboard (port 3000, auto-opens browser)
horus dashboard 3001            # Custom port
horus dashboard -t              # Terminal UI mode
```

## 🏗️ Core API

### Scheduler
```rust
use horus_core::scheduling::Scheduler;

let mut scheduler = Scheduler::new();

// Register nodes with priority and logging
scheduler.register(Box::new(my_node), priority, Some(logging));

// Run scheduler (blocks until Ctrl+C)
scheduler.tick_all()?;
```

**Methods:**
- `new()` - Create scheduler
- `register(node, priority, logging)` - Add node (priority: 0=highest)
- `tick_all()` - Run main loop with Ctrl+C handling
- `tick_node(&[names])` - Run specific nodes only
- `stop()` - Stop scheduler
- `is_running()` - Check if running

### Hub (Pub/Sub)
```rust
use horus_core::communication::horus::Hub;

// Create publisher/subscriber
let hub: Hub<f64> = Hub::new("topic_name")?;
let hub_custom: Hub<MyMsg> = Hub::new_with_capacity("topic", 2048)?;

// Publish
hub.send(42.0, ctx)?;  // With logging context
hub.send(42.0, None)?; // Without logging

// Subscribe
if let Some(msg) = hub.recv(ctx) {
    // Process message
}
```

**Performance:**
- 366ns for small messages (16B)
- 543ns for IMU data (304B)
- 1.58μs for LaserScan (1.5KB)
- 2.8μs for PointCloud (120KB)

### Node Trait
```rust
use horus_core::core::{Node, NodeInfo};

pub trait Node: Send {
    fn name(&self) -> &'static str;
    fn init(&mut self, ctx: &mut NodeInfo) -> Result<(), String> { Ok(()) }
    fn tick(&mut self, ctx: Option<&mut NodeInfo>);
    fn shutdown(&mut self, ctx: &mut NodeInfo) -> Result<(), String> { Ok(()) }
    fn get_publishers(&self) -> Vec<TopicMetadata> { Vec::new() }
    fn get_subscribers(&self) -> Vec<TopicMetadata> { Vec::new() }
}
```

### node! Macro
```rust
use horus_macros::node;

node! {
    MyNode {
        pub { output: f64 -> "output_topic" }
        sub { input: f64 <- "input_topic" }

        data {
            counter: u32 = 0,
        }

        init(ctx) {
            ctx.log_info("MyNode initialized");
            Ok(())
        }

        tick(ctx) {
            if let Some(value) = self.input.recv(ctx) {
                self.counter += 1;
                self.output.send(value * 2.0, ctx).ok();
            }
        }

        shutdown(ctx) {
            ctx.log_info("MyNode shutdown");
            Ok(())
        }
    }
}
```

## 🎯 Example Applications

### SnakeSim (Uni - Multi-Node Game)
```bash
cd horus_library/unies/snakesim/snake_scheduler
cargo run --release
```

**Architecture:**
- **KeyboardInputNode** (priority 0): Arrow key input
- **SnakeControlNode** (priority 2): Game logic
- **GUINode** (priority 3): Terminal rendering

### Sim2D Physics Simulator
```bash
cd horus_library/tools/sim2d
cargo run --release
```

Complete 2D robotics simulator with Bevy visualization and Rapier2D physics.

## 🔍 Monitoring

HORUS provides automatic monitoring through NodeInfo:

```rust
fn tick(&mut self, ctx: Option<&mut NodeInfo>) {
    if let Some(ctx) = ctx {
        // Automatic metrics tracking
        println!("Avg tick: {}μs", ctx.metrics().avg_tick_duration_ms * 1000.0);
        println!("Total ticks: {}", ctx.metrics().total_ticks);
        println!("Errors: {}", ctx.metrics().errors_count);
    }
}
```

**Metrics Available:**
- `total_ticks` - Total number of ticks
- `avg_tick_duration_ms` - Average tick time
- `max_tick_duration_ms` - Worst-case tick time
- `messages_sent` - Published messages
- `messages_received` - Subscribed messages
- `errors_count` - Error count
- `uptime_seconds` - Node uptime

## 🚀 Remote Deployment

Deploy to physical robots via HTTP:

```bash
horus run --remote 192.168.1.100:8080
```

**Process:**
1. Packages project as `.tar.gz`
2. POSTs to `http://ROBOT:8080/deploy`
3. `horus_daemon` receives and builds
4. Returns deployment ID + PID

**Start daemon on robot:**
```bash
cargo run --release -p horus_daemon
```

## 📦 Shared Memory

HORUS uses `/dev/shm` for zero-copy IPC:

```bash
# View shared memory regions
ls -lh /dev/shm/horus/

# Check space
df -h /dev/shm
```

**Configuration:**
- Default capacity: 1024 slots per topic
- Custom: `Hub::new_with_capacity(topic, 2048)`
- Location: `/dev/shm/horus/<topic_name>`

## 🧪 Multi-Language Support

### Python
```python
import horus

class SensorNode(horus.Node):
    def __init__(self):
        self.pub = horus.Hub("sensor_data")

    def name(self):
        return "PySensor"

    def tick(self, ctx):
        self.pub.send(42.0, ctx)
```

### C
```c
#include "horus.h"

void tick(NodeInfo* ctx) {
    Hub* hub = hub_new("sensor_data");
    hub_send_f64(hub, 42.0, ctx);
}
```

## 🎯 Use Cases

### Research & Education
- Clean API for learning robotics
- Built-in monitoring eliminates debugging complexity
- Complete examples demonstrate best practices

### Real-Time Systems
- Priority-based scheduling for timing guarantees
- Shared memory for microsecond latencies
- Thread-safe communication

### Production Robotics
- Reliable Ctrl+C handling and cleanup
- Comprehensive system monitoring
- Memory-safe message passing for 24/7 operation

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`
3. Commit changes: `git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`
4. Push to branch: `git push origin feature/amazing-feature`
5. Open Pull Request

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the Apache License 2.0 - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🤝 Contributor License Agreement

By contributing to HORUS, you agree to our [Contributor License Agreement](.github/CLA.md). This helps us maintain the project's licensing integrity while protecting both contributors and users.

---

## 🌟 Why HORUS?

| Feature | HORUS | ROS2 |
|---------|-------|------|
| **Latency** | **366ns-2.8μs** | ~50-500 μs |
| **Setup** | `register()` → `tick_all()` | Complex launch files |
| **Communication** | Shared memory | DDS/FastDDS |
| **Memory Safety** | Rust + fixed-size messages | C++ manual management |
| **Debugging** | Built-in dashboard | External tools (rviz/rqt) |
| **Learning Curve** | Simple `tick()` method | Complex lifecycles |

**HORUS: Real-time robotics made simple** 🤖

*Build faster. Debug easier. Deploy with confidence.*
