docs-site/content/docs/authentication.mdx, before:

---
title: Authentication
description: Manage credentials for the HORUS registry and marketplace
order: 11
---

# Authentication

> **Under Development**: The authentication and registry features described in this guide are currently under active development. Some functionality may be incomplete or subject to change.

Authentication is required for publishing packages, sharing environments, and accessing private registry resources. HORUS uses GitHub OAuth for interactive login and API keys for automated systems.

## Overview

**Authentication methods:**
- **GitHub OAuth** - Interactive login via browser (recommended for development)
- **API Keys** - Long-lived tokens for CI/CD and automation
- **Environment Variables** - For containerized deployments

**What requires authentication:**
- Publishing packages (`horus publish`)
- Publishing environments (`horus env freeze --publish`)
- Accessing private packages
- Managing your published packages

**What doesn't require authentication:**
- Installing public packages (`horus pkg install`)
- Searching registry (`horus pkg list`)
- Restoring public environments (`horus env restore`)
- Using installed packages

## Quick Start

### Interactive Login

```bash
# Login with GitHub
horus auth login --github
```

**What happens:**
1. Opens browser to GitHub OAuth page
2. You authorize HORUS Registry
3. Token saved to `~/.horus/credentials`
4. Ready to publish!

### Check Authentication

```bash
# Verify you're logged in
horus auth whoami
```

**Output:**
```
Authenticated as: your-username
Email: you@example.com
GitHub: https://github.com/your-username
Provider: GitHub OAuth
Token: ****...****abcd
Expires: Never (refresh handled automatically)
```

### Logout

```bash
# Remove credentials
horus auth logout
```

## GitHub OAuth Login

### First-Time Setup

**Step-by-step:**
```bash
# 1. Run login command
horus auth login --github
```

**Output:**
```
Opening GitHub OAuth page in browser...

If browser doesn't open automatically, visit:
  https://github.com/login/oauth/authorize?client_id=...

Waiting for authorization...
```

**In browser:**
1. See "Authorize HORUS Registry" page
2. Review permissions requested:
   - Read user profile
   - Read email address
3. Click "Authorize horus-registry"
4. Redirected to success page

**Back in terminal:**
```
✓ Authorization successful!
✓ Token saved to ~/.horus/credentials

Authenticated as: your-username
Email: you@example.com

You can now publish packages with:
  horus publish
```

### What Gets Stored

**Credentials file:** `~/.horus/credentials`

```json
{
  "provider": "github",
  "username": "your-username",
  "email": "you@example.com",
  "token": "gho_abc123def456...",
  "refresh_token": "gho_xyz789...",
  "expires_at": null,
  "created_at": "2025-10-09T14:30:00Z"
}
```

**Security:**
- File permissions: `0600` (read/write owner only)
- Tokens encrypted at rest
- Auto-refresh before expiration
- Revocable via GitHub settings

### Token Permissions

**Required scopes:**
- `read:user` - Read your GitHub profile
- `user:email` - Read your email address

**Not requested:**
- No write access to repositories
- No access to private repositories
- No access to organizations

### Revoking Access

**Via GitHub:**
1. Go to https://github.com/settings/applications
2. Find "HORUS Registry" under "Authorized OAuth Apps"
3. Click "Revoke"

**Via CLI:**
```bash
horus auth logout
```

## API Keys

API keys are long-lived tokens for automated systems like CI/CD pipelines.

### Generating API Keys

**Interactive generation:**
```bash
horus auth generate-key
```

**Interactive prompts:**
```
Generating API key...

Key name (for identification): CI/CD Pipeline
Environment (optional): production
Description (optional): GitHub Actions deployment

Generated API key:
  horus_live_abc123def456ghi789jkl012mno345pqr678stu901

WARNING: WARNING: Copy this key now. It won't be shown again.

Save to environment variable:
  export HORUS_API_KEY=horus_live_abc123def456ghi789jkl012mno345pqr678stu901

Or use in CI:
  # GitHub Actions
  - name: Publish
    env:
      HORUS_API_KEY: ${{ secrets.HORUS_API_KEY }}
    run: horus publish
```

**With flags:**
```bash
horus auth generate-key \
  --name "GitHub Actions" \
  --environment "production"
```

### Using API Keys

**Environment variable (recommended):**
```bash
# Set for session
export HORUS_API_KEY=horus_live_abc123...

# Use horus commands
horus publish
```

**Credentials file:**
```bash
# Save to file manually
echo '{"api_key":"horus_live_abc123..."}' > ~/.horus/credentials
```

> **Note**: Managing API keys (listing, revoking, etc.) is currently done through the registry web interface at https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev

## CI/CD Integration

### GitHub Actions

**Workflow file (`.github/workflows/publish.yml`):**
```yaml
name: Publish to HORUS Registry

on:
  push:
    tags:
      - 'v*'

jobs:
  publish:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v3

      - name: Install Rust
        uses: actions-rs/toolchain@v1
        with:
          toolchain: stable

      - name: Install HORUS
        run: |
          cargo install horus_manager

      - name: Publish Package
        env:
          HORUS_API_KEY: ${{ secrets.HORUS_API_KEY }}
        run: |
          horus publish --yes

      - name: Publish Environment
        env:
          HORUS_API_KEY: ${{ secrets.HORUS_API_KEY }}
        run: |
          horus env freeze --publish \
            --name "Release ${{ github.ref_name }}"
```

**Setup:**
1. Generate API key: `horus auth generate-key --name "GitHub Actions"`
2. Copy key: `horus_live_abc123...`
3. Add to GitHub secrets:
   - Go to repository Settings → Secrets → Actions
   - New repository secret: `HORUS_API_KEY`
   - Paste key value
4. Push tag: `git tag v1.0.0 && git push origin v1.0.0`

### GitLab CI

**`.gitlab-ci.yml`:**
```yaml
publish:
  stage: deploy
  image: rust:latest
  before_script:
    - cargo install horus_manager
  script:
    - horus publish --yes
  only:
    - tags
  variables:
    HORUS_API_KEY: $CI_HORUS_API_KEY
```

**Setup:**
1. Generate key: `horus auth generate-key --name "GitLab CI"`
2. Add to GitLab:
   - Settings → CI/CD → Variables
   - Key: `CI_HORUS_API_KEY`
   - Value: `horus_live_abc123...`
   - Type: Masked

### Docker

**Dockerfile:**
```dockerfile
FROM rust:1.70

# Install HORUS
RUN cargo install horus_manager

# Copy project
COPY . /app
WORKDIR /app

# Build and publish
ARG HORUS_API_KEY
ENV HORUS_API_KEY=${HORUS_API_KEY}

RUN horus publish --yes
```

**Build:**
```bash
docker build \
  --build-arg HORUS_API_KEY=$HORUS_API_KEY \
  -t my-horus-app .
```

### Jenkins

**Jenkinsfile:**
```groovy
pipeline {
    agent any

    environment {
        HORUS_API_KEY = credentials('horus-api-key')
    }

    stages {
        stage('Build') {
            steps {
                sh 'cargo build --release'
            }
        }

        stage('Publish') {
            when {
                buildingTag()
            }
            steps {
                sh 'horus publish --yes'
            }
        }
    }
}
```

**Setup:**
1. Generate key: `horus auth generate-key --name "Jenkins"`
2. Jenkins dashboard → Manage Jenkins → Credentials
3. Add secret text credential: `horus-api-key`

## Environment Variables

### Available Variables

**`HORUS_API_KEY`**
- API key for authentication
- Overrides credentials file
- Required for CI/CD

**`HORUS_REGISTRY_URL`**
- Custom registry URL
- Default: `https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev`
- For self-hosted or custom registries

**`HORUS_TOKEN`**
- OAuth token (alternative to API key)
- Not recommended for CI/CD

**Example usage:**
```bash
export HORUS_API_KEY=horus_live_abc123...
export HORUS_REGISTRY_URL=https://custom-registry.company.com

horus publish
```

## Security Best Practices

### Token Security

**Do's:**
- Use API keys for CI/CD (not OAuth tokens)
- Rotate keys every 90 days
- Use different keys for different environments
- Store keys in CI/CD secrets management
- Revoke unused keys immediately
- Use environment variables (not command-line flags)

**Don'ts:**
- Never commit credentials to git
- Never share API keys between team members
- Never log API keys
- Never use same key for prod and dev
- Never hardcode keys in source code

### Credentials File Security

**File permissions:**
```bash
# Verify permissions
ls -la ~/.horus/credentials
# Should show: -rw------- (600)

# Fix if needed
chmod 600 ~/.horus/credentials
```

**Backup:**
```bash
# Backup credentials (encrypted)
gpg -c ~/.horus/credentials
# Creates ~/.horus/credentials.gpg

# Restore
gpg -d ~/.horus/credentials.gpg > ~/.horus/credentials
chmod 600 ~/.horus/credentials
```

### Key Rotation

**Regular rotation schedule:**
```bash
# 1. Generate new key
horus auth generate-key --name "Production 2025-Q4"

# 2. Update CI/CD secrets with the new key
# (Do this manually in your CI/CD platform)

# 3. Test new key
export HORUS_API_KEY=horus_live_new_key...
horus auth whoami

# 4. Revoke old key via registry web interface
# Visit https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev to manage keys
```

### Monitoring

> **Note**: API key usage monitoring and alerts are managed through the registry web interface at https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev (local) or https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev (public)

## Troubleshooting

### Authentication Failed

**Error:**
```
Error: Authentication required
  Run: horus auth login --github
```

**Solutions:**
```bash
# Check current status
horus auth whoami

# Re-authenticate
horus auth login --github

# Verify credentials file exists
ls -la ~/.horus/credentials
```

### Token Expired

**Error:**
```
Error: Token expired
  Please re-authenticate
```

**Solutions:**
```bash
# Re-login (auto-refreshes token)
horus auth login --github

# Or use API key instead
horus auth generate-key
export HORUS_API_KEY=horus_live_abc123...
```

### Invalid API Key

**Error:**
```
Error: Invalid API key
  Status: 401 Unauthorized
```

**Causes:**
- Key was revoked
- Key expired
- Typo in key value
- Wrong registry URL

**Solutions:**
```bash
# Verify key format
echo $HORUS_API_KEY
# Should start with: horus_live_

# Check key status via registry web interface
# Visit https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev or https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev

# Generate new key
horus auth generate-key
```

### Permission Denied

**Error:**
```
Error: Permission denied
  You don't have permission to publish to this package
```

**Causes:**
- Package owned by another user
- Not logged in
- Insufficient permissions

**Solutions:**
```bash
# Verify authentication
horus auth whoami

# Check package ownership via registry web interface
# Visit https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev or https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev

# For package ownership transfer, contact registry support
```

### GitHub OAuth Failed

**Error:**
```
Error: OAuth authorization failed
  Could not complete GitHub authentication
```

**Solutions:**
```bash
# Try manual flow
horus auth login --github --no-browser

# Output:
Visit this URL: https://github.com/login/oauth/authorize?client_id=...

# Check browser popup blockers

# Verify GitHub account
curl https://api.github.com/user \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer <your-github-token>"
```

## Advanced Topics

### Self-Hosted Registry

**Configure custom registry:**
```bash
# Set registry URL
export HORUS_REGISTRY_URL=https://registry.company.internal

# Authenticate
horus auth login --registry https://registry.company.internal

# Use as normal
horus publish
```

### Multiple Accounts

**Switch between accounts:**
```bash
# Save current credentials
mv ~/.horus/credentials ~/.horus/credentials.account1

# Login with second account
horus auth login --github

# Switch back
mv ~/.horus/credentials ~/.horus/credentials.account2
mv ~/.horus/credentials.account1 ~/.horus/credentials
```

### Programmatic Authentication

**Using Rust:**
```rust
use horus_client::auth::AuthClient;

let client = AuthClient::new();

// With API key
client.authenticate_with_key("horus_live_abc123...")?;

// Check auth
let user = client.whoami()?;
println!("Authenticated as: {}", user.username);
```

**Using Python:**
```python
from horus import AuthClient

client = AuthClient()

# With API key
client.authenticate(api_key="horus_live_abc123...")

# Check auth
user = client.whoami()
print(f"Authenticated as: {user['username']}")
```

## Next Steps

- **[Marketplace](/marketplace)** - Publish and discover packages
- **[Package Management](/package-management)** - Install and manage packages
- **[Remote Deployment](/remote-deployment)** - Deploy to remote robots
- **[Registry & Marketplace](/registry-marketplace)** - Explore the registry
- **[CLI Reference](/cli-reference)** - Complete command documentation

Commit message:

docs: fix 'under development' warnings - make them specific
- dashboard.mdx: Fixed incorrect 'horus monitor' reference
  - Clarified both web and TUI modes exist via 'horus dashboard'
- package-management.mdx: Updated warning to be specific
  - Publishing requires backend, installing works immediately
- environment-management.mdx: Removed generic warning
  - Commands (freeze/restore) are fully functional
- remote-deployment.mdx: Made warning specific
  - Remote deploy requires daemon, local execution works
- marketplace.mdx: Updated warning to be specific
  - Publishing/browsing requires backend deployment

All CLI commands verified to exist in horus_manager/src/main.rs

docs-site/content/docs/authentication.mdx, after:

---
title: Authentication
description: Manage credentials for the HORUS registry and marketplace
order: 11
---

# Authentication

> **Note**: Registry publishing and private resources require the marketplace backend to be deployed. GitHub authentication is fully functional.

Authentication is required for publishing packages, sharing environments, and accessing private registry resources. HORUS uses GitHub OAuth for interactive login and API keys for automated systems.

## Overview

**Authentication methods:**
- **GitHub OAuth** - Interactive login via browser (recommended for development)
- **API Keys** - Long-lived tokens for CI/CD and automation
- **Environment Variables** - For containerized deployments

**What requires authentication:**
- Publishing packages (`horus publish`)
- Publishing environments (`horus env freeze --publish`)
- Accessing private packages
- Managing your published packages

**What doesn't require authentication:**
- Installing public packages (`horus pkg install`)
- Searching registry (`horus pkg list`)
- Restoring public environments (`horus env restore`)
- Using installed packages

## Quick Start

### Interactive Login

```bash
# Login with GitHub
horus auth login --github
```

**What happens:**
1. Opens browser to GitHub OAuth page
2. You authorize HORUS Registry
3. Token saved to `~/.horus/credentials`
4. Ready to publish!

### Check Authentication

```bash
# Verify you're logged in
horus auth whoami
```

**Output:**
```
Authenticated as: your-username
Email: you@example.com
GitHub: https://github.com/your-username
Provider: GitHub OAuth
Token: ****...****abcd
Expires: Never (refresh handled automatically)
```

### Logout

```bash
# Remove credentials
horus auth logout
```

## GitHub OAuth Login

### First-Time Setup

**Step-by-step:**
```bash
# 1. Run login command
horus auth login --github
```

**Output:**
```
Opening GitHub OAuth page in browser...

If browser doesn't open automatically, visit:
  https://github.com/login/oauth/authorize?client_id=...

Waiting for authorization...
```

**In browser:**
1. See "Authorize HORUS Registry" page
2. Review permissions requested:
   - Read user profile
   - Read email address
3. Click "Authorize horus-registry"
4. Redirected to success page

**Back in terminal:**
```
✓ Authorization successful!
✓ Token saved to ~/.horus/credentials

Authenticated as: your-username
Email: you@example.com

You can now publish packages with:
  horus publish
```

### What Gets Stored

**Credentials file:** `~/.horus/credentials`

```json
{
  "provider": "github",
  "username": "your-username",
  "email": "you@example.com",
  "token": "gho_abc123def456...",
  "refresh_token": "gho_xyz789...",
  "expires_at": null,
  "created_at": "2025-10-09T14:30:00Z"
}
```

**Security:**
- File permissions: `0600` (read/write owner only)
- Tokens encrypted at rest
- Auto-refresh before expiration
- Revocable via GitHub settings

### Token Permissions

**Required scopes:**
- `read:user` - Read your GitHub profile
- `user:email` - Read your email address

**Not requested:**
- No write access to repositories
- No access to private repositories
- No access to organizations

### Revoking Access

**Via GitHub:**
1. Go to https://github.com/settings/applications
2. Find "HORUS Registry" under "Authorized OAuth Apps"
3. Click "Revoke"

**Via CLI:**
```bash
horus auth logout
```

## API Keys

API keys are long-lived tokens for automated systems like CI/CD pipelines.

### Generating API Keys

**Interactive generation:**
```bash
horus auth generate-key
```

**Interactive prompts:**
```
Generating API key...

Key name (for identification): CI/CD Pipeline
Environment (optional): production
Description (optional): GitHub Actions deployment

Generated API key:
  horus_live_abc123def456ghi789jkl012mno345pqr678stu901

WARNING: WARNING: Copy this key now. It won't be shown again.

Save to environment variable:
  export HORUS_API_KEY=horus_live_abc123def456ghi789jkl012mno345pqr678stu901

Or use in CI:
  # GitHub Actions
  - name: Publish
    env:
      HORUS_API_KEY: ${{ secrets.HORUS_API_KEY }}
    run: horus publish
```

**With flags:**
```bash
horus auth generate-key \
  --name "GitHub Actions" \
  --environment "production"
```

### Using API Keys

**Environment variable (recommended):**
```bash
# Set for session
export HORUS_API_KEY=horus_live_abc123...

# Use horus commands
horus publish
```

**Credentials file:**
```bash
# Save to file manually
echo '{"api_key":"horus_live_abc123..."}' > ~/.horus/credentials
```

> **Note**: Managing API keys (listing, revoking, etc.) is currently done through the registry web interface at https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev

## CI/CD Integration

### GitHub Actions

**Workflow file (`.github/workflows/publish.yml`):**
```yaml
name: Publish to HORUS Registry

on:
  push:
    tags:
      - 'v*'

jobs:
  publish:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v3

      - name: Install Rust
        uses: actions-rs/toolchain@v1
        with:
          toolchain: stable

      - name: Install HORUS
        run: |
          cargo install horus_manager

      - name: Publish Package
        env:
          HORUS_API_KEY: ${{ secrets.HORUS_API_KEY }}
        run: |
          horus publish --yes

      - name: Publish Environment
        env:
          HORUS_API_KEY: ${{ secrets.HORUS_API_KEY }}
        run: |
          horus env freeze --publish \
            --name "Release ${{ github.ref_name }}"
```

**Setup:**
1. Generate API key: `horus auth generate-key --name "GitHub Actions"`
2. Copy key: `horus_live_abc123...`
3. Add to GitHub secrets:
   - Go to repository Settings → Secrets → Actions
   - New repository secret: `HORUS_API_KEY`
   - Paste key value
4. Push tag: `git tag v1.0.0 && git push origin v1.0.0`

### GitLab CI

**`.gitlab-ci.yml`:**
```yaml
publish:
  stage: deploy
  image: rust:latest
  before_script:
    - cargo install horus_manager
  script:
    - horus publish --yes
  only:
    - tags
  variables:
    HORUS_API_KEY: $CI_HORUS_API_KEY
```

**Setup:**
1. Generate key: `horus auth generate-key --name "GitLab CI"`
2. Add to GitLab:
   - Settings → CI/CD → Variables
   - Key: `CI_HORUS_API_KEY`
   - Value: `horus_live_abc123...`
   - Type: Masked

### Docker

**Dockerfile:**
```dockerfile
FROM rust:1.70

# Install HORUS
RUN cargo install horus_manager

# Copy project
COPY . /app
WORKDIR /app

# Build and publish
ARG HORUS_API_KEY
ENV HORUS_API_KEY=${HORUS_API_KEY}

RUN horus publish --yes
```

**Build:**
```bash
docker build \
  --build-arg HORUS_API_KEY=$HORUS_API_KEY \
  -t my-horus-app .
```

### Jenkins

**Jenkinsfile:**
```groovy
pipeline {
    agent any

    environment {
        HORUS_API_KEY = credentials('horus-api-key')
    }

    stages {
        stage('Build') {
            steps {
                sh 'cargo build --release'
            }
        }

        stage('Publish') {
            when {
                buildingTag()
            }
            steps {
                sh 'horus publish --yes'
            }
        }
    }
}
```

**Setup:**
1. Generate key: `horus auth generate-key --name "Jenkins"`
2. Jenkins dashboard → Manage Jenkins → Credentials
3. Add secret text credential: `horus-api-key`

## Environment Variables

### Available Variables

**`HORUS_API_KEY`**
- API key for authentication
- Overrides credentials file
- Required for CI/CD

**`HORUS_REGISTRY_URL`**
- Custom registry URL
- Default: `https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev`
- For self-hosted or custom registries

**`HORUS_TOKEN`**
- OAuth token (alternative to API key)
- Not recommended for CI/CD

**Example usage:**
```bash
export HORUS_API_KEY=horus_live_abc123...
export HORUS_REGISTRY_URL=https://custom-registry.company.com

horus publish
```

## Security Best Practices

### Token Security

**Do's:**
- Use API keys for CI/CD (not OAuth tokens)
- Rotate keys every 90 days
- Use different keys for different environments
- Store keys in CI/CD secrets management
- Revoke unused keys immediately
- Use environment variables (not command-line flags)

**Don'ts:**
- Never commit credentials to git
- Never share API keys between team members
- Never log API keys
- Never use same key for prod and dev
- Never hardcode keys in source code

### Credentials File Security

**File permissions:**
```bash
# Verify permissions
ls -la ~/.horus/credentials
# Should show: -rw------- (600)

# Fix if needed
chmod 600 ~/.horus/credentials
```

**Backup:**
```bash
# Backup credentials (encrypted)
gpg -c ~/.horus/credentials
# Creates ~/.horus/credentials.gpg

# Restore
gpg -d ~/.horus/credentials.gpg > ~/.horus/credentials
chmod 600 ~/.horus/credentials
```

### Key Rotation

**Regular rotation schedule:**
```bash
# 1. Generate new key
horus auth generate-key --name "Production 2025-Q4"

# 2. Update CI/CD secrets with the new key
# (Do this manually in your CI/CD platform)

# 3. Test new key
export HORUS_API_KEY=horus_live_new_key...
horus auth whoami

# 4. Revoke old key via registry web interface
# Visit https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev to manage keys
```

### Monitoring

> **Note**: API key usage monitoring and alerts are managed through the registry web interface at https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev (local) or https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev (public)

## Troubleshooting

### Authentication Failed

**Error:**
```
Error: Authentication required
  Run: horus auth login --github
```

**Solutions:**
```bash
# Check current status
horus auth whoami

# Re-authenticate
horus auth login --github

# Verify credentials file exists
ls -la ~/.horus/credentials
```

### Token Expired

**Error:**
```
Error: Token expired
  Please re-authenticate
```

**Solutions:**
```bash
# Re-login (auto-refreshes token)
horus auth login --github

# Or use API key instead
horus auth generate-key
export HORUS_API_KEY=horus_live_abc123...
```

### Invalid API Key

**Error:**
```
Error: Invalid API key
  Status: 401 Unauthorized
```

**Causes:**
- Key was revoked
- Key expired
- Typo in key value
- Wrong registry URL

**Solutions:**
```bash
# Verify key format
echo $HORUS_API_KEY
# Should start with: horus_live_

# Check key status via registry web interface
# Visit https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev or https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev

# Generate new key
horus auth generate-key
```

### Permission Denied

**Error:**
```
Error: Permission denied
  You don't have permission to publish to this package
```

**Causes:**
- Package owned by another user
- Not logged in
- Insufficient permissions

**Solutions:**
```bash
# Verify authentication
horus auth whoami

# Check package ownership via registry web interface
# Visit https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev or https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev

# For package ownership transfer, contact registry support
```

### GitHub OAuth Failed

**Error:**
```
Error: OAuth authorization failed
  Could not complete GitHub authentication
```

**Solutions:**
```bash
# Try manual flow
horus auth login --github --no-browser

# Output:
Visit this URL: https://github.com/login/oauth/authorize?client_id=...

# Check browser popup blockers

# Verify GitHub account
curl https://api.github.com/user \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer <your-github-token>"
```

## Advanced Topics

### Self-Hosted Registry

**Configure custom registry:**
```bash
# Set registry URL
export HORUS_REGISTRY_URL=https://registry.company.internal

# Authenticate
horus auth login --registry https://registry.company.internal

# Use as normal
horus publish
```

### Multiple Accounts

**Switch between accounts:**
```bash
# Save current credentials
mv ~/.horus/credentials ~/.horus/credentials.account1

# Login with second account
horus auth login --github

# Switch back
mv ~/.horus/credentials ~/.horus/credentials.account2
mv ~/.horus/credentials.account1 ~/.horus/credentials
```

### Programmatic Authentication

**Using Rust:**
```rust
use horus_client::auth::AuthClient;

let client = AuthClient::new();

// With API key
client.authenticate_with_key("horus_live_abc123...")?;

// Check auth
let user = client.whoami()?;
println!("Authenticated as: {}", user.username);
```

**Using Python:**
```python
from horus import AuthClient

client = AuthClient()

# With API key
client.authenticate(api_key="horus_live_abc123...")

# Check auth
user = client.whoami()
print(f"Authenticated as: {user['username']}")
```

## Next Steps

- **[Marketplace](/marketplace)** - Publish and discover packages
- **[Package Management](/package-management)** - Install and manage packages
- **[Remote Deployment](/remote-deployment)** - Deploy to remote robots
- **[Registry & Marketplace](/registry-marketplace)** - Explore the registry
- **[CLI Reference](/cli-reference)** - Complete command documentation
