docs-site/content/docs/dashboard.mdx, before:

---
title: Dashboard Guide
description: Monitor, debug, and manage your HORUS applications in real-time
order: 5
---

# Dashboard

Your mission control for robotics applications. Monitor performance, debug issues, and tune parameters - all from your browser, accessible from any device on your network.

## What is it?

The HORUS Dashboard is a **web interface** that lets you see inside your running robot system. Instead of tailing logs or SSH'ing into your robot, you get a visual, real-time view of everything happening.

**Access it from:**
- Your laptop while the robot runs
- Your phone/tablet for mobile monitoring
- Another team member's computer
- Anywhere on your network

## Why use it?

### You want to know: "Is my robot working?"

The dashboard shows you **at a glance**:
- ✅ All nodes running? (System health badge)
- ✅ Performance good? (CPU, memory, tick rates)
- ✅ Messages flowing? (Topic activity)
- ✅ Any errors? (Error counts)

**Without the dashboard:** Grep logs, check processes, SSH into robot, hope you find the issue

**With the dashboard:** Open browser, see everything instantly

### You want to: "Debug why it's not working"

**Common problems the dashboard solves:**

**"My subscriber isn't getting messages"**
- Check Topics tab → Is the topic there?
- Check Graph view → Are publisher and subscriber connected?
- Check Logs → Any connection errors?

**"The robot is running slow"**
- Check Nodes tab → Which node is using 90% CPU?
- Check tick rates → Which node can't keep up?
- Check Logs → Any "slow tick" warnings?

**"It worked yesterday, what changed?"**
- Check Parameters → What values are different?
- Check Nodes → Same nodes running as before?

### You want to: "Tune parameters live"

**Example: Tuning PID controller gains**

**Without dashboard:**
1. Edit config file
2. Stop robot
3. Restart robot
4. Test behavior
5. Repeat 20 times

**With dashboard:**
1. Open Parameters tab
2. Edit `pid.kp` value
3. Watch robot respond instantly
4. Tweak until perfect
5. Export final values

**Result:** 5 minutes instead of an hour

## Quick Start

```bash
# Start your robot
horus run

# In another terminal, start dashboard
horus dashboard
```

Browser opens automatically to `http://localhost:3000`

## What You Can Do

### 1. **Monitor Performance**

**See at a glance:**
- All running nodes in a table
- CPU and memory usage per node
- How fast each node is running (tick rate)
- Error counts

**When to check:**
- Starting up (verify all nodes launched)
- During operation (watch for anomalies)
- After code changes (ensure no performance regression)

**What you'll notice:**
- ✅ Tick rate steady at ~60 Hz → Good
- ⚠️ CPU jumping to 90% → Check that node
- ❌ Errors climbing → Something's wrong

### 2. **Debug Message Flow**

**Visual graph showing:**
- Blue circles = Your nodes
- Green circles = Topics
- Arrows = Who's talking to whom

**Use it when:**
- "Why isn't my subscriber getting data?"
  - Look: Is there an arrow from publisher → topic → subscriber?
  - If not: Name mismatch or node not running

- "Which nodes use this topic?"
  - Click the topic circle
  - See all connected nodes highlighted

### 3. **Watch Real-Time Logs**

**See logs from:**
- All nodes combined (system-wide view)
- One specific node (filter dropdown)
- Messages on a specific topic

**Use it when:**
- Debugging errors
- Verifying messages are being sent
- Checking timing (IPC overhead shown)

**Better than terminal logs:**
- Color-coded by level (info/warning/error)
- Filter by node without grep
- Auto-scrolls with new messages
- Shows performance metrics

### 4. **Tune Parameters Live**

**Interactive parameter editor:**
- See all current values
- Edit any parameter
- Changes apply immediately
- Auto-saves to disk

**Perfect for:**
- PID tuning (adjust gains while watching behavior)
- Speed limits (test different max velocities)
- Sensor thresholds (tune detection sensitivity)

**You'll save hours** compared to edit-restart-test cycles

### 5. **Manage Packages**

**Browse and install:**
- Search the registry for packages
- One-click install
- Choose global or local installation

**Like npm/pip** but for robot components

### 6. **Deploy to Robots**

**Send code to physical hardware:**
- Enter robot's IP/ID
- Select file to deploy
- Click deploy
- Watch build progress
- View robot's logs and stats

**Use it when:**
- Testing on real hardware
- Running experiments remotely
- Managing multiple robots

## Common Scenarios

### Starting Your Day

**You just sat down with coffee:**

1. Open dashboard
2. Check health badge → 🟢 All good
3. Glance at nodes table → All running, tick rates normal
4. Start working

**Total time:** 10 seconds to verify system health

### Something Broke

**Your robot stopped moving:**

**Dashboard workflow:**
1. Health badge is 🔴 Critical
2. Nodes tab → `motor_controller` has 50 errors
3. Click logs for that node
4. See: "Failed to connect to motor driver"
5. Fix: Cable unplugged

**Without dashboard:** Spend 15 minutes SSH'ing and grepping logs

**With dashboard:** Find issue in 30 seconds

### Performance Tuning

**Robot feels sluggish:**

**Dashboard shows:**
- `path_planner` using 85% CPU
- Tick rate dropped to 25 Hz (should be 60)
- Logs show "Path computation taking 40ms"

**Action:**
- Optimize path planning algorithm
- Or reduce planning frequency
- Or move to faster computer

**You found the bottleneck** in 2 minutes

### Team Collaboration

**Scenario:** Two people debugging

**Person 1 (at robot):**
- Running the code
- Making physical adjustments

**Person 2 (at desk):**
- Watching dashboard
- "CPU just spiked to 95%"
- "Tick rate dropped when you turned that corner"
- "I see errors in the lidar node"

**Real-time feedback loop** without both people crowding around one screen

## Access From Anywhere

**The dashboard binds to all network interfaces**, meaning:

✅ **Works great:**
- Monitor from your desk while robot runs across the room
- Check on phone while robot is charging
- Team member in another room sees same view
- Demo to visitors on a tablet

**How to access:**

**Same computer:**
```
http://localhost:3000
```

**Different device (same WiFi):**
```
http://192.168.1.100:3000
```
(Use your computer's actual IP - dashboard shows it at startup)

**Security note:** No authentication by default. Only use on trusted networks.

## Tips

**Leave it open:** Keep dashboard open while developing. Glance at it occasionally to catch issues early.

**Second monitor:** Perfect use for that extra screen - full-time system monitoring.

**Mobile monitoring:** Put it on a tablet mounted near your robot for at-a-glance status.

**Parameter experiments:** Export parameters before experimenting, so you can restore if needed.

## Quick Reference

**What each tab shows:**

| Tab | Shows | Use it to |
|-----|-------|-----------|
| **Nodes** | All running processes with CPU/memory/tick rate | Find performance issues |
| **Topics** | Active message channels with sizes | Verify communication setup |
| **Graph** | Visual network of nodes and topics | Understand system architecture |
| **Logs** | Real-time log stream from all nodes | Debug errors and timing |
| **Parameters** | Live config editor | Tune without restart |
| **Packages** | Registry browser | Install components |
| **Remote** | Robot deployment manager | Deploy to hardware |

**Health colors:**
- 🟢 Healthy - Everything normal
- 🟡 Warning - Minor issues
- 🟠 Degraded - Some errors
- 🔴 Critical - Major problems
- ⚪ Idle - Nothing running

## Troubleshooting

**Dashboard shows nothing**
→ Make sure your HORUS app is running first

**Can't access from phone**
→ Check both devices on same WiFi
→ Allow port 3000 in firewall: `sudo ufw allow 3000`

**Port already in use**
→ Use different port: `horus dashboard 8080`

**Parameters not saving**
→ Create config directory: `mkdir -p ~/.horus/config`

## Terminal UI Mode

Prefer the command line? Use terminal UI mode:

```bash
horus dashboard --tui
```

All the same features, rendered in your terminal. Perfect for:
- SSH sessions
- Headless servers
- Terminal enthusiasts

## Next Steps

- **[CLI Reference](/cli-reference)** - Dashboard commands
- **[Parameters Guide](/parameters)** - Deep dive into params
- **[Examples](/examples)** - Real usage patterns

Commit message:

adding under development notation to certain pages in docs-site

docs-site/content/docs/dashboard.mdx, after:

---
title: Dashboard Guide
description: Monitor, debug, and manage your HORUS applications in real-time
order: 5
---

# Dashboard

> **🚧 Under Development**: The HORUS Dashboard is currently under active development. Features and APIs may change. Check back for updates!

Your mission control for robotics applications. Monitor performance, debug issues, and tune parameters - all from your browser, accessible from any device on your network.

## What is it?

The HORUS Dashboard is a **web interface** that lets you see inside your running robot system. Instead of tailing logs or SSH'ing into your robot, you get a visual, real-time view of everything happening.

**Access it from:**
- Your laptop while the robot runs
- Your phone/tablet for mobile monitoring
- Another team member's computer
- Anywhere on your network

## Why use it?

### You want to know: "Is my robot working?"

The dashboard shows you **at a glance**:
- ✅ All nodes running? (System health badge)
- ✅ Performance good? (CPU, memory, tick rates)
- ✅ Messages flowing? (Topic activity)
- ✅ Any errors? (Error counts)

**Without the dashboard:** Grep logs, check processes, SSH into robot, hope you find the issue

**With the dashboard:** Open browser, see everything instantly

### You want to: "Debug why it's not working"

**Common problems the dashboard solves:**

**"My subscriber isn't getting messages"**
- Check Topics tab → Is the topic there?
- Check Graph view → Are publisher and subscriber connected?
- Check Logs → Any connection errors?

**"The robot is running slow"**
- Check Nodes tab → Which node is using 90% CPU?
- Check tick rates → Which node can't keep up?
- Check Logs → Any "slow tick" warnings?

**"It worked yesterday, what changed?"**
- Check Parameters → What values are different?
- Check Nodes → Same nodes running as before?

### You want to: "Tune parameters live"

**Example: Tuning PID controller gains**

**Without dashboard:**
1. Edit config file
2. Stop robot
3. Restart robot
4. Test behavior
5. Repeat 20 times

**With dashboard:**
1. Open Parameters tab
2. Edit `pid.kp` value
3. Watch robot respond instantly
4. Tweak until perfect
5. Export final values

**Result:** 5 minutes instead of an hour

## Quick Start

```bash
# Start your robot
horus run

# In another terminal, start dashboard
horus dashboard
```

Browser opens automatically to `http://localhost:3000`

## What You Can Do

### 1. **Monitor Performance**

**See at a glance:**
- All running nodes in a table
- CPU and memory usage per node
- How fast each node is running (tick rate)
- Error counts

**When to check:**
- Starting up (verify all nodes launched)
- During operation (watch for anomalies)
- After code changes (ensure no performance regression)

**What you'll notice:**
- ✅ Tick rate steady at ~60 Hz → Good
- ⚠️ CPU jumping to 90% → Check that node
- ❌ Errors climbing → Something's wrong

### 2. **Debug Message Flow**

**Visual graph showing:**
- Blue circles = Your nodes
- Green circles = Topics
- Arrows = Who's talking to whom

**Use it when:**
- "Why isn't my subscriber getting data?"
  - Look: Is there an arrow from publisher → topic → subscriber?
  - If not: Name mismatch or node not running

- "Which nodes use this topic?"
  - Click the topic circle
  - See all connected nodes highlighted

### 3. **Watch Real-Time Logs**

**See logs from:**
- All nodes combined (system-wide view)
- One specific node (filter dropdown)
- Messages on a specific topic

**Use it when:**
- Debugging errors
- Verifying messages are being sent
- Checking timing (IPC overhead shown)

**Better than terminal logs:**
- Color-coded by level (info/warning/error)
- Filter by node without grep
- Auto-scrolls with new messages
- Shows performance metrics

### 4. **Tune Parameters Live**

**Interactive parameter editor:**
- See all current values
- Edit any parameter
- Changes apply immediately
- Auto-saves to disk

**Perfect for:**
- PID tuning (adjust gains while watching behavior)
- Speed limits (test different max velocities)
- Sensor thresholds (tune detection sensitivity)

**You'll save hours** compared to edit-restart-test cycles

### 5. **Manage Packages**

**Browse and install:**
- Search the registry for packages
- One-click install
- Choose global or local installation

**Like npm/pip** but for robot components

### 6. **Deploy to Robots**

**Send code to physical hardware:**
- Enter robot's IP/ID
- Select file to deploy
- Click deploy
- Watch build progress
- View robot's logs and stats

**Use it when:**
- Testing on real hardware
- Running experiments remotely
- Managing multiple robots

## Common Scenarios

### Starting Your Day

**You just sat down with coffee:**

1. Open dashboard
2. Check health badge → 🟢 All good
3. Glance at nodes table → All running, tick rates normal
4. Start working

**Total time:** 10 seconds to verify system health

### Something Broke

**Your robot stopped moving:**

**Dashboard workflow:**
1. Health badge is 🔴 Critical
2. Nodes tab → `motor_controller` has 50 errors
3. Click logs for that node
4. See: "Failed to connect to motor driver"
5. Fix: Cable unplugged

**Without dashboard:** Spend 15 minutes SSH'ing and grepping logs

**With dashboard:** Find issue in 30 seconds

### Performance Tuning

**Robot feels sluggish:**

**Dashboard shows:**
- `path_planner` using 85% CPU
- Tick rate dropped to 25 Hz (should be 60)
- Logs show "Path computation taking 40ms"

**Action:**
- Optimize path planning algorithm
- Or reduce planning frequency
- Or move to faster computer

**You found the bottleneck** in 2 minutes

### Team Collaboration

**Scenario:** Two people debugging

**Person 1 (at robot):**
- Running the code
- Making physical adjustments

**Person 2 (at desk):**
- Watching dashboard
- "CPU just spiked to 95%"
- "Tick rate dropped when you turned that corner"
- "I see errors in the lidar node"

**Real-time feedback loop** without both people crowding around one screen

## Access From Anywhere

**The dashboard binds to all network interfaces**, meaning:

✅ **Works great:**
- Monitor from your desk while robot runs across the room
- Check on phone while robot is charging
- Team member in another room sees same view
- Demo to visitors on a tablet

**How to access:**

**Same computer:**
```
http://localhost:3000
```

**Different device (same WiFi):**
```
http://192.168.1.100:3000
```
(Use your computer's actual IP - dashboard shows it at startup)

**Security note:** No authentication by default. Only use on trusted networks.

## Tips

**Leave it open:** Keep dashboard open while developing. Glance at it occasionally to catch issues early.

**Second monitor:** Perfect use for that extra screen - full-time system monitoring.

**Mobile monitoring:** Put it on a tablet mounted near your robot for at-a-glance status.

**Parameter experiments:** Export parameters before experimenting, so you can restore if needed.

## Quick Reference

**What each tab shows:**

| Tab | Shows | Use it to |
|-----|-------|-----------|
| **Nodes** | All running processes with CPU/memory/tick rate | Find performance issues |
| **Topics** | Active message channels with sizes | Verify communication setup |
| **Graph** | Visual network of nodes and topics | Understand system architecture |
| **Logs** | Real-time log stream from all nodes | Debug errors and timing |
| **Parameters** | Live config editor | Tune without restart |
| **Packages** | Registry browser | Install components |
| **Remote** | Robot deployment manager | Deploy to hardware |

**Health colors:**
- 🟢 Healthy - Everything normal
- 🟡 Warning - Minor issues
- 🟠 Degraded - Some errors
- 🔴 Critical - Major problems
- ⚪ Idle - Nothing running

## Troubleshooting

**Dashboard shows nothing**
→ Make sure your HORUS app is running first

**Can't access from phone**
→ Check both devices on same WiFi
→ Allow port 3000 in firewall: `sudo ufw allow 3000`

**Port already in use**
→ Use different port: `horus dashboard 8080`

**Parameters not saving**
→ Create config directory: `mkdir -p ~/.horus/config`

## Terminal UI Mode

Prefer the command line? Use terminal UI mode:

```bash
horus dashboard --tui
```

All the same features, rendered in your terminal. Perfect for:
- SSH sessions
- Headless servers
- Terminal enthusiasts

## Next Steps

- **[CLI Reference](/cli-reference)** - Dashboard commands
- **[Parameters Guide](/parameters)** - Deep dive into params
- **[Examples](/examples)** - Real usage patterns
