docs-site/content/docs/marketplace.mdx, before:

---
title: Marketplace & Registry
description: Discover, publish, and share HORUS packages with the community
order: 10
---

# Marketplace & Registry

> **Under Development**: The marketplace and registry features described in this guide are currently under active development. Some functionality may be incomplete or subject to change.

The HORUS Marketplace is a centralized registry for discovering, sharing, and managing robotics packages. Publish your work, find solutions built by the community, and accelerate your robotics development.

## Overview

The marketplace provides:

- **Package Discovery** - Search thousands of community packages
- **Version Management** - Semantic versioning with dependency resolution
- **GitHub Authentication** - Secure publishing with GitHub OAuth
- **Environment Sharing** - Publish and restore complete environments
- **Analytics** - Download counts, trending packages
- **Quality Metrics** - Community ratings and documentation quality

**Registry URL:** https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev

## Quick Start

### Discovering Packages

**Web Interface:**
```bash
# Open marketplace in browser
open https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev
```

**CLI Search:**
```bash
# Search all packages
horus pkg list

# Search by keyword
horus pkg list sensor

# Search by category
horus pkg list --category control

# Search by author
horus pkg list --author robotics-lab
```

### Installing from Registry

```bash
# Install latest version
horus pkg install pid-controller

# Install specific version
horus pkg install pid-controller -v 1.2.0

# View package details first
horus pkg info pid-controller
```

### Publishing to Registry

```bash
# 1. Authenticate
horus auth login --github

# 2. Publish
horus publish
```

## Package Discovery

### Web Interface

**Features:**
- Visual package browsing
- Filtering by category, author, license
- Trending and featured packages
- Detailed package pages with README
- Code examples and documentation

**Navigation:**
```
https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev/
├── /packages              # Browse all packages
├── /packages/trending     # Trending this week
├── /packages/featured     # Staff picks
├── /categories            # Browse by category
│   ├── /control
│   ├── /planning
│   ├── /perception
│   └── /drivers
└── /environments          # Shared environments
```

### CLI Search

**Basic search:**
```bash
horus pkg list sensor
```

**Output:**
```
Registry Packages (10 matches):

  sensor-fusion          2.1.0    Kalman filter sensor fusion       Stars: 234   Downloads: 5,234
  sensor-drivers         1.5.0    LIDAR/IMU/camera drivers          Stars: 187   Downloads: 8,901
  sensor-calibration     1.0.0    Calibration tools                 Stars: 92    Downloads: 1,432
  sensor-simulator       0.9.0    Simulate sensor data              Stars: 156   Downloads: 2,314
  lidar-sensor           2.0.0    LIDAR driver for common devices   Stars: 203   Downloads: 6,789
  imu-sensor             1.3.0    IMU driver and processing         Stars: 145   Downloads: 4,567
  camera-sensor          1.2.1    Camera capture and processing     Stars: 178   Downloads: 5,432
  sensor-utils           0.8.0    Common sensor utilities           Stars: 89    Downloads: 2,109
  multi-sensor-fusion    1.1.0    Multi-modal sensor fusion         Stars: 112   Downloads: 3,456
  sensor-diagnostics     0.7.0    Sensor health monitoring          Stars: 67    Downloads: 1,234
```

**Advanced search:**
```bash
# Filter by category
horus pkg list --category perception

# Filter by minimum stars
horus pkg list sensor --min-stars 100

# Sort by downloads
horus pkg list --sort downloads

# Show detailed results
horus pkg list sensor --detailed
```

### Package Information

**View detailed info:**
```bash
horus pkg info sensor-fusion
```

**Output:**
```
═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
Package: sensor-fusion
═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

Version: 2.1.0
Author: robotics-lab
License: MIT
Category: perception
Repository: https://github.com/robotics-lab/sensor-fusion

Description:
  Advanced sensor fusion using Extended Kalman Filter (EKF) and
  Unscented Kalman Filter (UKF). Supports LIDAR, IMU, GPS, and
  camera inputs for robust state estimation.

Features:
  - Extended Kalman Filter (EKF)
  - Unscented Kalman Filter (UKF)
  - Multi-sensor support (LIDAR, IMU, GPS, camera)
  - Outlier rejection
  - Adaptive noise estimation
  - Real-time performance (&lt;1ms per update)

Dependencies:
  - nalgebra ^0.32 (matrix operations)
  - horus_library ^0.1 (standard messages)

Stats:
  Stars: 234
  Downloads: 5,234 (last 30 days)
  Last updated: 2025-09-28
  Documentation: 98% coverage

Installation:
  horus pkg install sensor-fusion

Example Usage:
  use sensor_fusion::EKFNode;
  use horus::prelude::*;

  let filter = EKFNode::new();
  scheduler.register(Box::new(filter), 5, Some(true));

Repository: https://github.com/robotics-lab/sensor-fusion
Documentation: https://docs.horus.dev/packages/sensor-fusion
Issues: https://github.com/robotics-lab/sensor-fusion/issues
```

## Publishing Packages

### Prerequisites

1. **GitHub Account** - Required for authentication
2. **Complete Package** - With Cargo.toml, README.md, examples
3. **Testing** - Package must build successfully
4. **Documentation** - Clear README with usage instructions

### Authentication

**First-time setup:**
```bash
horus auth login --github
```

**What happens:**
1. Opens browser to GitHub OAuth page
2. You authorize HORUS Registry
3. Token saved to `~/.horus/credentials`
4. Ready to publish!

**Check authentication:**
```bash
horus auth whoami
```

**Output:**
```
Authenticated as: your-username
Email: you@example.com
GitHub: https://github.com/your-username
API Token: ****...****
```

### Package Metadata

**Required in Cargo.toml:**
```toml
[package]
name = "my-awesome-package"
version = "1.0.0"
authors = ["Your Name <you@example.com>"]
description = "Brief description of your package (max 100 chars)"
license = "MIT"
repository = "https://github.com/username/my-awesome-package"
documentation = "https://docs.rs/my-awesome-package"
readme = "README.md"
keywords = ["robotics", "control", "pid"]
categories = ["robotics", "control"]

[package.metadata.horus]
category = "control"  # control, planning, perception, drivers, utils, simulation
featured = false
```

**Package categories:**
- `control` - Controllers (PID, MPC, etc.)
- `planning` - Path planning, motion planning
- `perception` - Sensors, computer vision, SLAM
- `drivers` - Hardware drivers (motors, sensors)
- `utils` - Utilities and helpers
- `simulation` - Simulators and testing tools
- `algorithms` - General robotics algorithms
- `messages` - Message type definitions

### Publishing Workflow

**Step-by-step:**
```bash
# 1. Ensure you're in package directory
cd my-awesome-package

# 2. Verify package builds
horus run --build-only --release

# 3. Run tests
cargo test

# 4. Check package metadata
cargo metadata --format-version 1 | jq '.packages[0]'

# 5. Publish
horus publish
```

**Interactive prompts:**
```
Publishing my-awesome-package v1.0.0...

Pre-flight checks:
  [OK] Package metadata complete
  [OK] README.md present
  [OK] License specified (MIT)
  [OK] Build successful (release mode)
  [OK] Tests passed (5/5)
  [OK] Examples present (2 found)
  [OK] Documentation generated

Package analysis:
  Name: my-awesome-package
  Version: 1.0.0
  Category: control
  Size: 245 KB (compressed)
  Dependencies: 3
  Examples: 2

Ready to publish? [y/N]: y

Uploading...
  [UPLOADING] Package archive (245 KB)
  [OK] Package uploaded
  [OK] Metadata indexed
  [OK] README parsed
  [OK] Examples extracted

Published successfully!

Package URL: https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev/packages/my-awesome-package
Install command: horus pkg install my-awesome-package

Share your package:
  https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev/packages/my-awesome-package
```

### Updating Packages

**Publishing new version:**
```bash
# 1. Update version in Cargo.toml
[package]
version = "1.1.0"  # Was 1.0.0

# 2. Update CHANGELOG.md
## [1.1.0] - 2025-10-09
### Added
- New feature X
### Fixed
- Bug Y

# 3. Commit changes
git add .
git commit -m "Release v1.1.0"
git tag v1.1.0

# 4. Publish
horus publish
```

### Yanking Versions

**Remove broken version:**
```bash
# Yank version (prevents new installs, doesn't delete)
horus pkg yank my-awesome-package -v 1.0.1 --reason "Critical bug in controller"

# Un-yank version
horus pkg unyank my-awesome-package -v 1.0.1
```

**Note:** Yanked versions are hidden in search but remain downloadable for projects already using them.

## Environment Marketplace

### Publishing Environments

**Create shareable environment:**
```bash
horus env freeze --publish \
  --name "Mobile Robot Production Setup" \
  --description "Tested configuration for warehouse robots"
```

**Output:**
```
Publishing environment...

Environment Details:
  Name: Mobile Robot Production Setup
  Packages: 5 (3 direct, 2 transitive)
  HORUS Version: 0.1.0
  Size: 2.3 MB

Uploading...
  [OK] Manifest uploaded
  [OK] Verified all packages available
  [OK] Generated shareable ID

Published: env_abc123def456

Share this environment:
  horus env restore env_abc123def456

View online:
  https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev/environments/env_abc123def456
```

### Discovering Environments

**Browse environments:**
```bash
# List public environments
horus env list --public

# Search by keyword
horus env list mobile robot

# Filter by author
horus env list --author robotics-lab
```

**Output:**
```
Public Environments:

  env_abc123
  Mobile Robot Production Setup
  Author: robotics-lab
  Packages: 5
  Downloads: 234
  Published: 2025-10-09

  env_xyz789
  Autonomous Vehicle Stack
  Author: self-driving-team
  Packages: 12
  Downloads: 567
  Published: 2025-09-28

Total: 2 matching environments
```

### Installing Environments

```bash
# Install by ID
horus env restore env_abc123def456

# Install and verify
horus env restore env_abc123def456 --verify
```

## Registry API

### Direct API Access

The registry provides a REST API for programmatic access:

**Base URL:** `https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev/api/v1`

### Search Packages

**Endpoint:** `GET /packages`

**Parameters:**
- `q` - Search query
- `category` - Filter by category
- `author` - Filter by author
- `limit` - Results per page (default: 20)
- `offset` - Pagination offset

**Example:**
```bash
curl "https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev/api/v1/packages?q=sensor&category=perception&limit=10"
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "packages": [
    {
      "name": "sensor-fusion",
      "version": "2.1.0",
      "author": "robotics-lab",
      "description": "Advanced sensor fusion using EKF and UKF",
      "category": "perception",
      "license": "MIT",
      "downloads": 5234,
      "stars": 234,
      "updated_at": "2025-09-28T10:30:00Z",
      "repository": "https://github.com/robotics-lab/sensor-fusion"
    }
  ],
  "total": 10,
  "page": 1,
  "limit": 10
}
```

### Get Package Info

**Endpoint:** `GET /packages/:name`

**Example:**
```bash
curl "https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev/api/v1/packages/sensor-fusion"
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "name": "sensor-fusion",
  "version": "2.1.0",
  "author": "robotics-lab",
  "description": "Advanced sensor fusion using EKF and UKF",
  "category": "perception",
  "license": "MIT",
  "keywords": ["kalman", "fusion", "ekf", "ukf"],
  "dependencies": {
    "nalgebra": "^0.32",
    "horus_library": "^0.1"
  },
  "downloads": 5234,
  "stars": 234,
  "readme": "# Sensor Fusion\n\nAdvanced sensor fusion...",
  "repository": "https://github.com/robotics-lab/sensor-fusion",
  "documentation": "https://docs.rs/sensor-fusion",
  "created_at": "2025-06-15T08:00:00Z",
  "updated_at": "2025-09-28T10:30:00Z",
  "versions": ["2.1.0", "2.0.0", "1.5.0", "1.0.0"]
}
```

### Download Package

**Endpoint:** `GET /packages/:name/:version/download`

**Example:**
```bash
curl -o sensor-fusion.tar.gz \
  "https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev/api/v1/packages/sensor-fusion/2.1.0/download"
```

### Publish Package

**Endpoint:** `POST /packages`

**Headers:**
- `Authorization: Bearer <token>`
- `Content-Type: application/octet-stream`

**Example:**
```bash
# Get auth token
TOKEN=$(cat ~/.horus/credentials | jq -r '.token')

# Package project
tar czf package.tar.gz .

# Upload
curl -X POST \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/octet-stream" \
  --data-binary @package.tar.gz \
  "https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev/api/v1/packages"
```

## Quality & Trust

### Package Quality Metrics

The registry tracks quality metrics for each package:

**Documentation Coverage:**
- 90-100% - Excellent
- 70-89% - Good
- &lt;70% - Needs improvement

**Build Status:**
- Builds successfully
- Build failures

**Test Coverage:**
- Number of tests
- Test pass rate

**Example Presence:**
- Has examples
- No examples

**Update Frequency:**
- Active (updated in last month)
- Maintained (updated in last 6 months)
- Stale (no updates in 6+ months)

### Community Metrics

**Downloads:**
- Total downloads
- Downloads last 30 days
- Trending packages

**Stars:**
- GitHub stars
- Registry favorites

**Issues:**
- Open issues count
- Issue response time
- Issue resolution rate

### Trust Indicators

**Verified Authors:**
- Verified - Identity confirmed
- Organization - Official organization account

**Featured Packages:**
- Featured - Staff-picked quality packages

**Security Audits:**
- Audited - Passed security review

## Package Management Best Practices

### Choosing Packages

**Evaluation checklist:**
- Clear documentation
- Recent updates (last 6 months)
- Good download/star count
- Active issue responses
- Compatible license
- Minimal dependencies

**Red flags:**
- No documentation or examples
- No updates in 12+ months
- Many open issues with no responses
- Excessive dependencies
- Unclear license

### Publishing Best Practices

**Before publishing:**
1. Complete README with examples
2. Add usage examples in `examples/`
3. Write tests
4. Add CHANGELOG.md
5. Specify clear license
6. Add repository URL
7. Test on clean install

**Versioning strategy:**
- `0.x.x` - Experimental, expect breaking changes
- `1.0.0` - First stable release
- `1.x.x` - Stable with backward compatibility
- `2.0.0` - Breaking changes

**Maintenance:**
- Respond to issues promptly
- Keep dependencies updated
- Publish regular updates
- Maintain CHANGELOG
- Add CI/CD for testing

## Registry Administration

### User Management

**View your profile:**
```bash
horus auth whoami
```

**Update profile:**
```bash
horus auth profile --name "Your Name" --email "you@example.com"
```

### Package Management

**List your packages:**
```bash
horus pkg list --author your-username
```

**Update package metadata:**
```bash
# Edit Cargo.toml, then republish with same version
horus publish --update-metadata
```

**Delete package:**
```bash
# Requires confirmation and reason
horus pkg delete my-package --reason "No longer maintained"
```

**Transfer ownership:**
```bash
horus pkg transfer my-package --to new-owner
```

## Troubleshooting

### Authentication Failed

**Error:**
```
Error: Authentication failed
  Not logged in or token expired
```

**Solution:**
```bash
# Re-authenticate
horus auth login --github

# Check status
horus auth whoami
```

### Publishing Failed

**Error:**
```
Error: Package validation failed
  - Missing README.md
  - No license specified
```

**Solution:**
```bash
# Add README
echo "# My Package" > README.md

# Add license to Cargo.toml
[package]
license = "MIT"

# Retry
horus publish
```

### Package Not Found

**Error:**
```
Error: Package 'nonexistent-package' not found
```

**Solutions:**
```bash
# Check spelling
horus pkg list nonexistent

# Search registry
horus pkg list --detailed

# Verify availability
curl "https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev/api/v1/packages/package-name"
```

### Version Already Published

**Error:**
```
Error: Version 1.0.0 already published
  Cannot republish same version
```

**Solution:**
```bash
# Bump version in Cargo.toml
[package]
version = "1.0.1"

# Publish new version
horus publish
```

## Next Steps

- **[Package Management](/package-management)** - Detailed package commands
- **[Authentication](/authentication)** - Manage credentials
- **[Environment Management](/environment-management)** - Share environments
- **[Registry & Marketplace](/registry-marketplace)** - Publishing workflow
- **[CLI Reference](/cli-reference)** - Complete command documentation

Commit message:

docs: fix 'under development' warnings - make them specific
- dashboard.mdx: Fixed incorrect 'horus monitor' reference
  - Clarified both web and TUI modes exist via 'horus dashboard'
- package-management.mdx: Updated warning to be specific
  - Publishing requires backend, installing works immediately
- environment-management.mdx: Removed generic warning
  - Commands (freeze/restore) are fully functional
- remote-deployment.mdx: Made warning specific
  - Remote deploy requires daemon, local execution works
- marketplace.mdx: Updated warning to be specific
  - Publishing/browsing requires backend deployment

All CLI commands verified to exist in horus_manager/src/main.rs

docs-site/content/docs/marketplace.mdx, after:

---
title: Marketplace & Registry
description: Discover, publish, and share HORUS packages with the community
order: 10
---

# Marketplace & Registry

> **Note**: Publishing to and browsing the marketplace requires the backend to be deployed. Package installation from public registries works immediately.

The HORUS Marketplace is a centralized registry for discovering, sharing, and managing robotics packages. Publish your work, find solutions built by the community, and accelerate your robotics development.

## Overview

The marketplace provides:

- **Package Discovery** - Search thousands of community packages
- **Version Management** - Semantic versioning with dependency resolution
- **GitHub Authentication** - Secure publishing with GitHub OAuth
- **Environment Sharing** - Publish and restore complete environments
- **Analytics** - Download counts, trending packages
- **Quality Metrics** - Community ratings and documentation quality

**Registry URL:** https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev

## Quick Start

### Discovering Packages

**Web Interface:**
```bash
# Open marketplace in browser
open https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev
```

**CLI Search:**
```bash
# Search all packages
horus pkg list

# Search by keyword
horus pkg list sensor

# Search by category
horus pkg list --category control

# Search by author
horus pkg list --author robotics-lab
```

### Installing from Registry

```bash
# Install latest version
horus pkg install pid-controller

# Install specific version
horus pkg install pid-controller -v 1.2.0

# View package details first
horus pkg info pid-controller
```

### Publishing to Registry

```bash
# 1. Authenticate
horus auth login --github

# 2. Publish
horus publish
```

## Package Discovery

### Web Interface

**Features:**
- Visual package browsing
- Filtering by category, author, license
- Trending and featured packages
- Detailed package pages with README
- Code examples and documentation

**Navigation:**
```
https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev/
├── /packages              # Browse all packages
├── /packages/trending     # Trending this week
├── /packages/featured     # Staff picks
├── /categories            # Browse by category
│   ├── /control
│   ├── /planning
│   ├── /perception
│   └── /drivers
└── /environments          # Shared environments
```

### CLI Search

**Basic search:**
```bash
horus pkg list sensor
```

**Output:**
```
Registry Packages (10 matches):

  sensor-fusion          2.1.0    Kalman filter sensor fusion       Stars: 234   Downloads: 5,234
  sensor-drivers         1.5.0    LIDAR/IMU/camera drivers          Stars: 187   Downloads: 8,901
  sensor-calibration     1.0.0    Calibration tools                 Stars: 92    Downloads: 1,432
  sensor-simulator       0.9.0    Simulate sensor data              Stars: 156   Downloads: 2,314
  lidar-sensor           2.0.0    LIDAR driver for common devices   Stars: 203   Downloads: 6,789
  imu-sensor             1.3.0    IMU driver and processing         Stars: 145   Downloads: 4,567
  camera-sensor          1.2.1    Camera capture and processing     Stars: 178   Downloads: 5,432
  sensor-utils           0.8.0    Common sensor utilities           Stars: 89    Downloads: 2,109
  multi-sensor-fusion    1.1.0    Multi-modal sensor fusion         Stars: 112   Downloads: 3,456
  sensor-diagnostics     0.7.0    Sensor health monitoring          Stars: 67    Downloads: 1,234
```

**Advanced search:**
```bash
# Filter by category
horus pkg list --category perception

# Filter by minimum stars
horus pkg list sensor --min-stars 100

# Sort by downloads
horus pkg list --sort downloads

# Show detailed results
horus pkg list sensor --detailed
```

### Package Information

**View detailed info:**
```bash
horus pkg info sensor-fusion
```

**Output:**
```
═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
Package: sensor-fusion
═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

Version: 2.1.0
Author: robotics-lab
License: MIT
Category: perception
Repository: https://github.com/robotics-lab/sensor-fusion

Description:
  Advanced sensor fusion using Extended Kalman Filter (EKF) and
  Unscented Kalman Filter (UKF). Supports LIDAR, IMU, GPS, and
  camera inputs for robust state estimation.

Features:
  - Extended Kalman Filter (EKF)
  - Unscented Kalman Filter (UKF)
  - Multi-sensor support (LIDAR, IMU, GPS, camera)
  - Outlier rejection
  - Adaptive noise estimation
  - Real-time performance (&lt;1ms per update)

Dependencies:
  - nalgebra ^0.32 (matrix operations)
  - horus_library ^0.1 (standard messages)

Stats:
  Stars: 234
  Downloads: 5,234 (last 30 days)
  Last updated: 2025-09-28
  Documentation: 98% coverage

Installation:
  horus pkg install sensor-fusion

Example Usage:
  use sensor_fusion::EKFNode;
  use horus::prelude::*;

  let filter = EKFNode::new();
  scheduler.register(Box::new(filter), 5, Some(true));

Repository: https://github.com/robotics-lab/sensor-fusion
Documentation: https://docs.horus.dev/packages/sensor-fusion
Issues: https://github.com/robotics-lab/sensor-fusion/issues
```

## Publishing Packages

### Prerequisites

1. **GitHub Account** - Required for authentication
2. **Complete Package** - With Cargo.toml, README.md, examples
3. **Testing** - Package must build successfully
4. **Documentation** - Clear README with usage instructions

### Authentication

**First-time setup:**
```bash
horus auth login --github
```

**What happens:**
1. Opens browser to GitHub OAuth page
2. You authorize HORUS Registry
3. Token saved to `~/.horus/credentials`
4. Ready to publish!

**Check authentication:**
```bash
horus auth whoami
```

**Output:**
```
Authenticated as: your-username
Email: you@example.com
GitHub: https://github.com/your-username
API Token: ****...****
```

### Package Metadata

**Required in Cargo.toml:**
```toml
[package]
name = "my-awesome-package"
version = "1.0.0"
authors = ["Your Name <you@example.com>"]
description = "Brief description of your package (max 100 chars)"
license = "MIT"
repository = "https://github.com/username/my-awesome-package"
documentation = "https://docs.rs/my-awesome-package"
readme = "README.md"
keywords = ["robotics", "control", "pid"]
categories = ["robotics", "control"]

[package.metadata.horus]
category = "control"  # control, planning, perception, drivers, utils, simulation
featured = false
```

**Package categories:**
- `control` - Controllers (PID, MPC, etc.)
- `planning` - Path planning, motion planning
- `perception` - Sensors, computer vision, SLAM
- `drivers` - Hardware drivers (motors, sensors)
- `utils` - Utilities and helpers
- `simulation` - Simulators and testing tools
- `algorithms` - General robotics algorithms
- `messages` - Message type definitions

### Publishing Workflow

**Step-by-step:**
```bash
# 1. Ensure you're in package directory
cd my-awesome-package

# 2. Verify package builds
horus run --build-only --release

# 3. Run tests
cargo test

# 4. Check package metadata
cargo metadata --format-version 1 | jq '.packages[0]'

# 5. Publish
horus publish
```

**Interactive prompts:**
```
Publishing my-awesome-package v1.0.0...

Pre-flight checks:
  [OK] Package metadata complete
  [OK] README.md present
  [OK] License specified (MIT)
  [OK] Build successful (release mode)
  [OK] Tests passed (5/5)
  [OK] Examples present (2 found)
  [OK] Documentation generated

Package analysis:
  Name: my-awesome-package
  Version: 1.0.0
  Category: control
  Size: 245 KB (compressed)
  Dependencies: 3
  Examples: 2

Ready to publish? [y/N]: y

Uploading...
  [UPLOADING] Package archive (245 KB)
  [OK] Package uploaded
  [OK] Metadata indexed
  [OK] README parsed
  [OK] Examples extracted

Published successfully!

Package URL: https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev/packages/my-awesome-package
Install command: horus pkg install my-awesome-package

Share your package:
  https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev/packages/my-awesome-package
```

### Updating Packages

**Publishing new version:**
```bash
# 1. Update version in Cargo.toml
[package]
version = "1.1.0"  # Was 1.0.0

# 2. Update CHANGELOG.md
## [1.1.0] - 2025-10-09
### Added
- New feature X
### Fixed
- Bug Y

# 3. Commit changes
git add .
git commit -m "Release v1.1.0"
git tag v1.1.0

# 4. Publish
horus publish
```

### Yanking Versions

**Remove broken version:**
```bash
# Yank version (prevents new installs, doesn't delete)
horus pkg yank my-awesome-package -v 1.0.1 --reason "Critical bug in controller"

# Un-yank version
horus pkg unyank my-awesome-package -v 1.0.1
```

**Note:** Yanked versions are hidden in search but remain downloadable for projects already using them.

## Environment Marketplace

### Publishing Environments

**Create shareable environment:**
```bash
horus env freeze --publish \
  --name "Mobile Robot Production Setup" \
  --description "Tested configuration for warehouse robots"
```

**Output:**
```
Publishing environment...

Environment Details:
  Name: Mobile Robot Production Setup
  Packages: 5 (3 direct, 2 transitive)
  HORUS Version: 0.1.0
  Size: 2.3 MB

Uploading...
  [OK] Manifest uploaded
  [OK] Verified all packages available
  [OK] Generated shareable ID

Published: env_abc123def456

Share this environment:
  horus env restore env_abc123def456

View online:
  https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev/environments/env_abc123def456
```

### Discovering Environments

**Browse environments:**
```bash
# List public environments
horus env list --public

# Search by keyword
horus env list mobile robot

# Filter by author
horus env list --author robotics-lab
```

**Output:**
```
Public Environments:

  env_abc123
  Mobile Robot Production Setup
  Author: robotics-lab
  Packages: 5
  Downloads: 234
  Published: 2025-10-09

  env_xyz789
  Autonomous Vehicle Stack
  Author: self-driving-team
  Packages: 12
  Downloads: 567
  Published: 2025-09-28

Total: 2 matching environments
```

### Installing Environments

```bash
# Install by ID
horus env restore env_abc123def456

# Install and verify
horus env restore env_abc123def456 --verify
```

## Registry API

### Direct API Access

The registry provides a REST API for programmatic access:

**Base URL:** `https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev/api/v1`

### Search Packages

**Endpoint:** `GET /packages`

**Parameters:**
- `q` - Search query
- `category` - Filter by category
- `author` - Filter by author
- `limit` - Results per page (default: 20)
- `offset` - Pagination offset

**Example:**
```bash
curl "https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev/api/v1/packages?q=sensor&category=perception&limit=10"
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "packages": [
    {
      "name": "sensor-fusion",
      "version": "2.1.0",
      "author": "robotics-lab",
      "description": "Advanced sensor fusion using EKF and UKF",
      "category": "perception",
      "license": "MIT",
      "downloads": 5234,
      "stars": 234,
      "updated_at": "2025-09-28T10:30:00Z",
      "repository": "https://github.com/robotics-lab/sensor-fusion"
    }
  ],
  "total": 10,
  "page": 1,
  "limit": 10
}
```

### Get Package Info

**Endpoint:** `GET /packages/:name`

**Example:**
```bash
curl "https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev/api/v1/packages/sensor-fusion"
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "name": "sensor-fusion",
  "version": "2.1.0",
  "author": "robotics-lab",
  "description": "Advanced sensor fusion using EKF and UKF",
  "category": "perception",
  "license": "MIT",
  "keywords": ["kalman", "fusion", "ekf", "ukf"],
  "dependencies": {
    "nalgebra": "^0.32",
    "horus_library": "^0.1"
  },
  "downloads": 5234,
  "stars": 234,
  "readme": "# Sensor Fusion\n\nAdvanced sensor fusion...",
  "repository": "https://github.com/robotics-lab/sensor-fusion",
  "documentation": "https://docs.rs/sensor-fusion",
  "created_at": "2025-06-15T08:00:00Z",
  "updated_at": "2025-09-28T10:30:00Z",
  "versions": ["2.1.0", "2.0.0", "1.5.0", "1.0.0"]
}
```

### Download Package

**Endpoint:** `GET /packages/:name/:version/download`

**Example:**
```bash
curl -o sensor-fusion.tar.gz \
  "https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev/api/v1/packages/sensor-fusion/2.1.0/download"
```

### Publish Package

**Endpoint:** `POST /packages`

**Headers:**
- `Authorization: Bearer <token>`
- `Content-Type: application/octet-stream`

**Example:**
```bash
# Get auth token
TOKEN=$(cat ~/.horus/credentials | jq -r '.token')

# Package project
tar czf package.tar.gz .

# Upload
curl -X POST \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/octet-stream" \
  --data-binary @package.tar.gz \
  "https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev/api/v1/packages"
```

## Quality & Trust

### Package Quality Metrics

The registry tracks quality metrics for each package:

**Documentation Coverage:**
- 90-100% - Excellent
- 70-89% - Good
- &lt;70% - Needs improvement

**Build Status:**
- Builds successfully
- Build failures

**Test Coverage:**
- Number of tests
- Test pass rate

**Example Presence:**
- Has examples
- No examples

**Update Frequency:**
- Active (updated in last month)
- Maintained (updated in last 6 months)
- Stale (no updates in 6+ months)

### Community Metrics

**Downloads:**
- Total downloads
- Downloads last 30 days
- Trending packages

**Stars:**
- GitHub stars
- Registry favorites

**Issues:**
- Open issues count
- Issue response time
- Issue resolution rate

### Trust Indicators

**Verified Authors:**
- Verified - Identity confirmed
- Organization - Official organization account

**Featured Packages:**
- Featured - Staff-picked quality packages

**Security Audits:**
- Audited - Passed security review

## Package Management Best Practices

### Choosing Packages

**Evaluation checklist:**
- Clear documentation
- Recent updates (last 6 months)
- Good download/star count
- Active issue responses
- Compatible license
- Minimal dependencies

**Red flags:**
- No documentation or examples
- No updates in 12+ months
- Many open issues with no responses
- Excessive dependencies
- Unclear license

### Publishing Best Practices

**Before publishing:**
1. Complete README with examples
2. Add usage examples in `examples/`
3. Write tests
4. Add CHANGELOG.md
5. Specify clear license
6. Add repository URL
7. Test on clean install

**Versioning strategy:**
- `0.x.x` - Experimental, expect breaking changes
- `1.0.0` - First stable release
- `1.x.x` - Stable with backward compatibility
- `2.0.0` - Breaking changes

**Maintenance:**
- Respond to issues promptly
- Keep dependencies updated
- Publish regular updates
- Maintain CHANGELOG
- Add CI/CD for testing

## Registry Administration

### User Management

**View your profile:**
```bash
horus auth whoami
```

**Update profile:**
```bash
horus auth profile --name "Your Name" --email "you@example.com"
```

### Package Management

**List your packages:**
```bash
horus pkg list --author your-username
```

**Update package metadata:**
```bash
# Edit Cargo.toml, then republish with same version
horus publish --update-metadata
```

**Delete package:**
```bash
# Requires confirmation and reason
horus pkg delete my-package --reason "No longer maintained"
```

**Transfer ownership:**
```bash
horus pkg transfer my-package --to new-owner
```

## Troubleshooting

### Authentication Failed

**Error:**
```
Error: Authentication failed
  Not logged in or token expired
```

**Solution:**
```bash
# Re-authenticate
horus auth login --github

# Check status
horus auth whoami
```

### Publishing Failed

**Error:**
```
Error: Package validation failed
  - Missing README.md
  - No license specified
```

**Solution:**
```bash
# Add README
echo "# My Package" > README.md

# Add license to Cargo.toml
[package]
license = "MIT"

# Retry
horus publish
```

### Package Not Found

**Error:**
```
Error: Package 'nonexistent-package' not found
```

**Solutions:**
```bash
# Check spelling
horus pkg list nonexistent

# Search registry
horus pkg list --detailed

# Verify availability
curl "https://marketplace.horus-registry.dev/api/v1/packages/package-name"
```

### Version Already Published

**Error:**
```
Error: Version 1.0.0 already published
  Cannot republish same version
```

**Solution:**
```bash
# Bump version in Cargo.toml
[package]
version = "1.0.1"

# Publish new version
horus publish
```

## Next Steps

- **[Package Management](/package-management)** - Detailed package commands
- **[Authentication](/authentication)** - Manage credentials
- **[Environment Management](/environment-management)** - Share environments
- **[Registry & Marketplace](/registry-marketplace)** - Publishing workflow
- **[CLI Reference](/cli-reference)** - Complete command documentation
