docs-site/content/docs/parameters.mdx, before:

---
title: Parameters Guide
description: Configure and tune your HORUS applications with runtime parameters
order: 18
---

# Parameters Guide

Runtime parameters in HORUS provide **dynamic configuration** without recompiling code. Adjust speeds, gains, thresholds, and behaviors on-the-fly for rapid prototyping and tuning.

## Why Parameters?

**Without parameters:**
```rust
// Hardcoded - requires recompile to change
let max_speed = 1.5;
let pid_kp = 1.0;
```

**With parameters:**
```rust
// Dynamic - change at runtime via dashboard or CLI
let max_speed = ctx.params.get_f64("motion.max_speed", 1.5);
let pid_kp = ctx.params.get_f64("control.pid.kp", 1.0);
```

**Benefits:**
- **No recompilation** - Change values without rebuilding
- **Live tuning** - Adjust while robot is running
- **Persistence** - Saved to disk automatically
- **Sharing** - Export/import parameter sets
- **Safety** - Fallback to defaults if missing

## Core Concepts

### Parameter Storage

Parameters are stored in a **thread-safe map**:

```rust
Arc<RwLock<BTreeMap<String, Value>>>
```

**Location:** `~/.horus/config/params.yaml`

**Format:**
```yaml
motion:
  max_speed: 1.5
  acceleration: 0.5
  deceleration: 0.8
control:
  pid:
    kp: 1.0
    ki: 0.1
    kd: 0.01
safety:
  emergency_stop: false
  collision_threshold: 0.3
sensors:
  lidar_rate_hz: 10
  camera_resolution: [1920, 1080]
```

### Parameter Types

HORUS supports all JSON-compatible types:

- **Numbers** - `f64`, `i64`, `u64` (stored as `Value::Number`)
- **Strings** - `String` (stored as `Value::String`)
- **Booleans** - `bool` (stored as `Value::Bool`)
- **Arrays** - `Vec<T>` (stored as `Value::Array`)
- **Objects** - `HashMap<String, T>` (stored as `Value::Object`)

### Hierarchical Keys

Use **dot notation** for organization:

```rust
// Good: Hierarchical structure
ctx.params.get_f64("motion.max_speed", 1.5);
ctx.params.get_f64("control.pid.kp", 1.0);
ctx.params.get_i32("sensors.lidar_rate_hz", 10);

// Avoid: Flat structure
ctx.params.get_f64("max_speed", 1.5);
ctx.params.get_f64("kp", 1.0);
```

**Benefits:**
- Clear organization
- Avoid name collisions
- Easy to export/import subsets
- Natural grouping in dashboard

## Using Parameters in Nodes

### Accessing Parameters

Parameters are available via the `NodeInfo` context:

```rust
node! {
    VelocityController {
        data {
            max_speed: f64 = 1.5,
            acceleration: f64 = 0.5
        }

        init(ctx) {
            // Load parameters on initialization
            self.max_speed = ctx.params.get_f64("motion.max_speed", 1.5);
            self.acceleration = ctx.params.get_f64("motion.acceleration", 0.5);

            ctx.log_info(&format!("Max speed: {} m/s", self.max_speed));
            ctx.log_info(&format!("Acceleration: {} m/s²", self.acceleration));
        }

        tick(ctx) {
            // Use parameters
            let target_velocity = self.max_speed;
            // ...
        }
    }
}
```

### Parameter Methods

**Get with default:**
```rust
// If parameter doesn't exist, returns default value
let speed = ctx.params.get_f64("motion.max_speed", 1.5);
let enabled = ctx.params.get_bool("features.auto_mode", false);
let rate = ctx.params.get_i32("sensors.update_rate_hz", 60);
```

**Get optional:**
```rust
// Returns Option<T> - None if parameter doesn't exist
if let Some(speed) = ctx.params.get::<f64>("motion.max_speed") {
    self.max_speed = speed;
}
```

**Set parameter:**
```rust
// Update parameter value
ctx.params.set("motion.max_speed", 2.0).ok();

// Set complex types
ctx.params.set("sensors.camera_resolution", vec![1920, 1080]).ok();
```

**Type-specific getters:**
```rust
// Convenience methods with type inference
let max_speed: f64 = ctx.params.get_f64("motion.max_speed", 1.5);
let node_name: String = ctx.params.get_string("node.name", "default");
let enabled: bool = ctx.params.get_bool("features.enabled", true);
let count: i32 = ctx.params.get_i32("samples.count", 100);
let id: u64 = ctx.params.get_u64("node.id", 0);
```

### Live Reloading

**Check for updates every tick:**
```rust
node! {
    AdaptiveController {
        data {
            max_speed: f64 = 1.5,
            last_speed_check: u64 = 0
        }

        tick(ctx) {
            // Check every 60 ticks (~1 second at 60 Hz)
            if self.last_speed_check % 60 == 0 {
                // Reload parameter
                let new_speed = ctx.params.get_f64("motion.max_speed", 1.5);

                if new_speed != self.max_speed {
                    ctx.log_info(&format!("Speed updated: {}  {}", self.max_speed, new_speed));
                    self.max_speed = new_speed;
                }
            }

            self.last_speed_check += 1;
        }
    }
}
```

**Performance note:** Parameter access is fast (~80-350ns via `Arc<RwLock>`), but avoid reading hundreds of parameters every tick. Cache values and reload periodically.

### Complex Parameter Types

**Arrays:**
```rust
// Set array
ctx.params.set("waypoints", vec![1.0, 2.5, 3.0, 4.5]).ok();

// Get array
let waypoints: Vec<f64> = ctx.params
    .get::<Vec<serde_json::Value>>("waypoints")
    .map(|v| v.iter().filter_map(|x| x.as_f64()).collect())
    .unwrap_or_default();
```

**Objects:**
```rust
use serde_json::json;

// Set nested object
let config = json!({
    "ip": "192.168.1.100",
    "port": 8080,
    "timeout_ms": 5000
});
ctx.params.set("network.config", config).ok();

// Get nested values
let ip = ctx.params.get_string("network.config.ip", "localhost");
let port = ctx.params.get_i32("network.config.port", 8080);
```

## Default Parameters

HORUS provides sensible defaults on first run:

```yaml
# ~/.horus/config/params.yaml (auto-generated)
motion:
  max_linear_velocity: 1.0
  max_angular_velocity: 1.0
  acceleration_limit: 0.5

sensors:
  lidar_rate_hz: 10
  camera_rate_hz: 30
  imu_rate_hz: 100

safety:
  emergency_stop_enabled: true
  collision_threshold: 0.5
  max_tilt_angle_deg: 30.0

control:
  pid_linear:
    kp: 1.0
    ki: 0.1
    kd: 0.01
  pid_angular:
    kp: 1.0
    ki: 0.1
    kd: 0.01
```

**Customization:**
1. File is created on first launch
2. Edit directly or use dashboard
3. Changes persist across restarts
4. Delete file to reset to defaults

## Managing Parameters

### Via Dashboard

**Web interface** (easiest method):

```bash
# Start dashboard
horus dashboard

# Navigate to Parameters tab
#  View all parameters
#  Edit values inline
#  Changes auto-save to disk
```

**Features:**
- Live editing with validation
- Type indicators (number/string/boolean)
- Export entire parameter set
- Import from YAML/JSON
- Delete individual parameters

See [Dashboard Guide](/dashboard#parameter-management) for API details.

### Via Code

**Manual save:**
```rust
// RuntimeParams saves automatically on set()
// But you can force a save
ctx.params.save_to_disk().ok();
```

**Manual load:**
```rust
// Reload from disk (useful after external edit)
ctx.params.load_from_disk().ok();
```

### Via File Edit

**Direct YAML editing:**

```bash
# Edit parameters file
vim ~/.horus/config/params.yaml

# Changes take effect:
# - Immediately if node reloads
# - On next restart if not
```

**Format:**
```yaml
# Use spaces (2 or 4), not tabs
motion:
  max_speed: 2.0        # number
  mode: "auto"          # string (quotes optional for simple strings)
  enabled: true         # boolean

sensors:
  rates: [10, 30, 100]  # array

# Comments are preserved
control:
  pid:
    kp: 1.0   # Proportional gain
    ki: 0.1   # Integral gain
    kd: 0.01  # Derivative gain
```

## Common Patterns

### PID Controller Tuning

```rust
node! {
    PIDController {
        data {
            kp: f64 = 1.0,
            ki: f64 = 0.1,
            kd: f64 = 0.01,
            integral: f64 = 0.0,
            last_error: f64 = 0.0
        }

        init(ctx) {
            // Load PID gains
            self.kp = ctx.params.get_f64("control.pid.kp", 1.0);
            self.ki = ctx.params.get_f64("control.pid.ki", 0.1);
            self.kd = ctx.params.get_f64("control.pid.kd", 0.01);

            ctx.log_info(&format!("PID: Kp={}, Ki={}, Kd={}", self.kp, self.ki, self.kd));
        }

        tick(ctx) {
            // Compute PID output
            let error = self.compute_error();
            self.integral += error;
            let derivative = error - self.last_error;

            let output = self.kp * error + self.ki * self.integral + self.kd * derivative;

            self.last_error = error;

            // Use output...
        }

        impl {
            fn compute_error(&self) -> f64 {
                // Your error calculation
                0.0
            }
        }
    }
}
```

**Tuning workflow:**
1. Start robot with default gains
2. Open dashboard  Parameters
3. Adjust `control.pid.kp/ki/kd` while robot runs
4. Observe behavior in dashboard metrics
5. Repeat until satisfactory
6. Parameters auto-save - done!

### Feature Flags

```rust
node! {
    AdvancedController {
        data {
            enable_obstacle_avoidance: bool = false,
            enable_path_planning: bool = false,
            enable_localization: bool = true
        }

        init(ctx) {
            self.enable_obstacle_avoidance = ctx.params.get_bool("features.obstacle_avoidance", false);
            self.enable_path_planning = ctx.params.get_bool("features.path_planning", false);
            self.enable_localization = ctx.params.get_bool("features.localization", true);
        }

        tick(ctx) {
            if self.enable_localization {
                self.update_localization();
            }

            if self.enable_obstacle_avoidance {
                self.avoid_obstacles();
            }

            if self.enable_path_planning {
                self.plan_path();
            }
        }

        impl {
            fn update_localization(&mut self) { /* ... */ }
            fn avoid_obstacles(&mut self) { /* ... */ }
            fn plan_path(&mut self) { /* ... */ }
        }
    }
}
```

### Environment-Specific Config

```rust
node! {
    NetworkNode {
        data {
            server_url: String = String::from("localhost:8080"),
            timeout_ms: u64 = 5000,
            retry_count: i32 = 3
        }

        init(ctx) {
            // Load environment-specific parameters
            let env = ctx.params.get_string("environment", "development");

            match env.as_str() {
                "production" => {
                    self.server_url = ctx.params.get_string("network.prod_url", "prod.example.com:8080");
                    self.timeout_ms = ctx.params.get_u64("network.prod_timeout_ms", 3000);
                },
                "staging" => {
                    self.server_url = ctx.params.get_string("network.staging_url", "staging.example.com:8080");
                    self.timeout_ms = ctx.params.get_u64("network.staging_timeout_ms", 5000);
                },
                _ => {
                    self.server_url = ctx.params.get_string("network.dev_url", "localhost:8080");
                    self.timeout_ms = ctx.params.get_u64("network.dev_timeout_ms", 10000);
                }
            }

            ctx.log_info(&format!("Connecting to {} (timeout: {}ms)", self.server_url, self.timeout_ms));
        }
    }
}
```

### Rate Limiting

```rust
node! {
    SensorPublisher {
        data {
            publish_rate_hz: u64 = 10,
            last_publish: std::time::Instant = std::time::Instant::now()
        }

        init(ctx) {
            self.publish_rate_hz = ctx.params.get_u64("sensors.publish_rate_hz", 10);
            ctx.log_info(&format!("Publishing at {} Hz", self.publish_rate_hz));
        }

        tick(ctx) {
            let interval = std::time::Duration::from_millis(1000 / self.publish_rate_hz);

            if self.last_publish.elapsed() >= interval {
                // Publish sensor data
                self.publish_data(ctx);
                self.last_publish = std::time::Instant::now();
            }
        }

        impl {
            fn publish_data(&mut self, ctx: Option<&mut NodeInfo>) {
                // Publishing logic
            }
        }
    }
}
```

## Best Practices

### Naming Conventions

**Use hierarchical structure:**
```yaml
# Good
motion:
  max_linear_velocity: 1.5
  max_angular_velocity: 2.0
control:
  pid:
    kp: 1.0
    ki: 0.1

# Bad
max_linear_velocity: 1.5
max_angular_velocity: 2.0
pid_kp: 1.0
pid_ki: 0.1
```

**Use descriptive names:**
```yaml
# Good
sensors:
  lidar_scan_rate_hz: 10
  camera_resolution_width: 1920

# Bad
sensors:
  rate: 10
  w: 1920
```

**Use consistent casing:**
```yaml
# Good (snake_case)
motion:
  max_speed: 1.5
  acceleration_limit: 0.5

# Bad (mixed casing)
motion:
  maxSpeed: 1.5
  acceleration_limit: 0.5
```

### Always Provide Defaults

**Never crash on missing parameters:**

```rust
// Good - provides fallback
let speed = ctx.params.get_f64("motion.max_speed", 1.5);

// Bad - panics if missing
let speed = ctx.params.get::<f64>("motion.max_speed").unwrap();
```

**Use sensible defaults:**
```rust
// Good - safe defaults
let emergency_stop = ctx.params.get_bool("safety.emergency_stop", true);  // Default to safe state
let max_speed = ctx.params.get_f64("motion.max_speed", 1.0);  // Default to slow

// Bad - unsafe defaults
let emergency_stop = ctx.params.get_bool("safety.emergency_stop", false);  // Unsafe!
let max_speed = ctx.params.get_f64("motion.max_speed", 100.0);  // Too fast!
```

### Document Parameters

**Add comments in YAML:**
```yaml
motion:
  # Maximum linear velocity in m/s (default: 1.5)
  max_linear_velocity: 1.5

  # Maximum angular velocity in rad/s (default: 2.0)
  max_angular_velocity: 2.0

control:
  pid:
    # Proportional gain - affects responsiveness (range: 0.1-10.0)
    kp: 1.0

    # Integral gain - affects steady-state error (range: 0.01-1.0)
    ki: 0.1

    # Derivative gain - affects damping (range: 0.001-0.1)
    kd: 0.01
```

**Add documentation in code:**
```rust
init(ctx) {
    // Load PID gains (tuning range: Kp=0.1-10, Ki=0.01-1, Kd=0.001-0.1)
    self.kp = ctx.params.get_f64("control.pid.kp", 1.0);
    self.ki = ctx.params.get_f64("control.pid.ki", 0.1);
    self.kd = ctx.params.get_f64("control.pid.kd", 0.01);
}
```

### Validate Parameter Values

**Add bounds checking:**
```rust
init(ctx) {
    // Load with validation
    let speed = ctx.params.get_f64("motion.max_speed", 1.5);

    // Clamp to safe range
    self.max_speed = speed.max(0.0).min(5.0);  // 0-5 m/s

    if speed != self.max_speed {
        ctx.log_warning(&format!(
            "max_speed {} out of range, clamped to {}",
            speed, self.max_speed
        ));
    }
}
```

### Export Parameter Sets

**Create presets for different scenarios:**

```bash
# Save current parameters to preset
horus dashboard
#  Parameters tab  Export  Save as "aggressive_tuning.yaml"

# Switch to different preset
cp ~/.horus/config/params.yaml ~/.horus/config/params_backup.yaml
cp aggressive_tuning.yaml ~/.horus/config/params.yaml

# Restart application to load new parameters
```

## Troubleshooting

### Parameters Not Loading

**Problem:** Parameters show default values even though YAML file exists.

**Cause:** YAML syntax error or file permissions.

**Solution:**
```bash
# Check YAML syntax
cat ~/.horus/config/params.yaml

# Validate YAML
yamllint ~/.horus/config/params.yaml

# Check permissions
ls -la ~/.horus/config/params.yaml

# Should be readable
chmod 644 ~/.horus/config/params.yaml
```

### Parameters Not Saving

**Problem:** Changes in dashboard don't persist.

**Cause:** Config directory doesn't exist or lacks write permissions.

**Solution:**
```bash
# Create config directory
mkdir -p ~/.horus/config

# Set permissions
chmod 755 ~/.horus/config

# Manually save from code
ctx.params.save_to_disk().ok();
```

### Type Mismatch

**Problem:** Parameter exists but wrong type.

**Error:**
```
Parameter 'motion.max_speed' expected f64, got String
```

**Solution:**

Check YAML format:
```yaml
# Wrong - string
max_speed: "1.5"

# Correct - number
max_speed: 1.5
```

Or use type conversion in code:
```rust
// Try as number first, then parse string as fallback
let speed = ctx.params.get_f64("motion.max_speed", 1.5);
```

### Lost Parameters After Update

**Problem:** Parameters reset to defaults after code update.

**Cause:** Defaults overwrite file on initialization.

**Solution:**

Backup parameters before updating:
```bash
# Backup
cp ~/.horus/config/params.yaml ~/.horus/config/params_backup.yaml

# After update, restore if needed
cp ~/.horus/config/params_backup.yaml ~/.horus/config/params.yaml
```

## Performance Considerations

### Access Speed

Parameters use `Arc<RwLock<BTreeMap>>`:

- **Read**: ~80-350ns (read lock + BTreeMap lookup)
- **Write**: ~100-500ns (write lock + BTreeMap insert + potential save)
- **Thread-safe**: Multiple nodes can read simultaneously

**Fast enough for:**
- Loading parameters in `init()` (one-time)
- Checking parameters every tick (60 Hz)
- Checking parameters every 100 ticks (~1 second)

**Too slow for:**
- Reading hundreds of parameters every tick
- Using as real-time message passing (use `Hub` instead)

### Caching Strategy

**Good: Cache and reload periodically**
```rust
data {
    max_speed: f64 = 1.5,
    reload_counter: u64 = 0
}

tick(ctx) {
    // Reload every 60 ticks (~1 second)
    if self.reload_counter % 60 == 0 {
        self.max_speed = ctx.params.get_f64("motion.max_speed", 1.5);
    }
    self.reload_counter += 1;

    // Use cached value
    let velocity = calculate_velocity(self.max_speed);
}
```

**Bad: Read every tick unnecessarily**
```rust
tick(ctx) {
    // Wasteful - reads same value 60 times per second
    let max_speed = ctx.params.get_f64("motion.max_speed", 1.5);
}
```

## Next Steps

- **[Dashboard Guide](/dashboard)** - Manage parameters via web interface
- **[node! Macro Guide](/node-macro)** - Learn about `init()` and `tick()` hooks
- **[Examples](/examples)** - See real-world parameter usage
- **[CLI Reference](/cli-reference)** - Command-line parameter tools

Commit message:

Fix: adding language context for horus run, fixing docs-site, adding recursive search for dashboard

docs-site/content/docs/parameters.mdx, after:

---
title: Parameters Guide
description: Configure and tune your HORUS applications with runtime parameters
order: 18
---

# Parameters Guide

> **⚠️ Under Development**: The parameters system is currently under active development. The core parameter API (`ctx.params.get_*()` and `ctx.params.set()`) works as documented, but the dashboard UI for parameter management and some advanced features are still being finalized. Check back for updates.

Runtime parameters in HORUS provide **dynamic configuration** without recompiling code. Adjust speeds, gains, thresholds, and behaviors on-the-fly for rapid prototyping and tuning.

## Why Parameters?

**Without parameters:**
```rust
// Hardcoded - requires recompile to change
let max_speed = 1.5;
let pid_kp = 1.0;
```

**With parameters:**
```rust
// Dynamic - change at runtime via dashboard or CLI
let max_speed = ctx.params.get_f64("motion.max_speed", 1.5);
let pid_kp = ctx.params.get_f64("control.pid.kp", 1.0);
```

**Benefits:**
- **No recompilation** - Change values without rebuilding
- **Live tuning** - Adjust while robot is running
- **Persistence** - Saved to disk automatically
- **Sharing** - Export/import parameter sets
- **Safety** - Fallback to defaults if missing

## Core Concepts

### Parameter Storage

Parameters are stored in a **thread-safe map**:

```rust
Arc<RwLock<BTreeMap<String, Value>>>
```

**Location:** `~/.horus/config/params.yaml`

**Format:**
```yaml
motion:
  max_speed: 1.5
  acceleration: 0.5
  deceleration: 0.8
control:
  pid:
    kp: 1.0
    ki: 0.1
    kd: 0.01
safety:
  emergency_stop: false
  collision_threshold: 0.3
sensors:
  lidar_rate_hz: 10
  camera_resolution: [1920, 1080]
```

### Parameter Types

HORUS supports all JSON-compatible types:

- **Numbers** - `f64`, `i64`, `u64` (stored as `Value::Number`)
- **Strings** - `String` (stored as `Value::String`)
- **Booleans** - `bool` (stored as `Value::Bool`)
- **Arrays** - `Vec<T>` (stored as `Value::Array`)
- **Objects** - `HashMap<String, T>` (stored as `Value::Object`)

### Hierarchical Keys

Use **dot notation** for organization:

```rust
// Good: Hierarchical structure
ctx.params.get_f64("motion.max_speed", 1.5);
ctx.params.get_f64("control.pid.kp", 1.0);
ctx.params.get_i32("sensors.lidar_rate_hz", 10);

// Avoid: Flat structure
ctx.params.get_f64("max_speed", 1.5);
ctx.params.get_f64("kp", 1.0);
```

**Benefits:**
- Clear organization
- Avoid name collisions
- Easy to export/import subsets
- Natural grouping in dashboard

## Using Parameters in Nodes

### Accessing Parameters

Parameters are available via the `NodeInfo` context:

```rust
node! {
    VelocityController {
        data {
            max_speed: f64 = 1.5,
            acceleration: f64 = 0.5
        }

        init(ctx) {
            // Load parameters on initialization
            self.max_speed = ctx.params.get_f64("motion.max_speed", 1.5);
            self.acceleration = ctx.params.get_f64("motion.acceleration", 0.5);

            ctx.log_info(&format!("Max speed: {} m/s", self.max_speed));
            ctx.log_info(&format!("Acceleration: {} m/s²", self.acceleration));
        }

        tick(ctx) {
            // Use parameters
            let target_velocity = self.max_speed;
            // ...
        }
    }
}
```

### Parameter Methods

**Get with default:**
```rust
// If parameter doesn't exist, returns default value
let speed = ctx.params.get_f64("motion.max_speed", 1.5);
let enabled = ctx.params.get_bool("features.auto_mode", false);
let rate = ctx.params.get_i32("sensors.update_rate_hz", 60);
```

**Get optional:**
```rust
// Returns Option<T> - None if parameter doesn't exist
if let Some(speed) = ctx.params.get::<f64>("motion.max_speed") {
    self.max_speed = speed;
}
```

**Set parameter:**
```rust
// Update parameter value
ctx.params.set("motion.max_speed", 2.0).ok();

// Set complex types
ctx.params.set("sensors.camera_resolution", vec![1920, 1080]).ok();
```

**Type-specific getters:**
```rust
// Convenience methods with type inference
let max_speed: f64 = ctx.params.get_f64("motion.max_speed", 1.5);
let node_name: String = ctx.params.get_string("node.name", "default");
let enabled: bool = ctx.params.get_bool("features.enabled", true);
let count: i32 = ctx.params.get_i32("samples.count", 100);
let id: u64 = ctx.params.get_u64("node.id", 0);
```

### Live Reloading

**Check for updates every tick:**
```rust
node! {
    AdaptiveController {
        data {
            max_speed: f64 = 1.5,
            last_speed_check: u64 = 0
        }

        tick(ctx) {
            // Check every 60 ticks (~1 second at 60 Hz)
            if self.last_speed_check % 60 == 0 {
                // Reload parameter
                let new_speed = ctx.params.get_f64("motion.max_speed", 1.5);

                if new_speed != self.max_speed {
                    ctx.log_info(&format!("Speed updated: {}  {}", self.max_speed, new_speed));
                    self.max_speed = new_speed;
                }
            }

            self.last_speed_check += 1;
        }
    }
}
```

**Performance note:** Parameter access is fast (~80-350ns via `Arc<RwLock>`), but avoid reading hundreds of parameters every tick. Cache values and reload periodically.

### Complex Parameter Types

**Arrays:**
```rust
// Set array
ctx.params.set("waypoints", vec![1.0, 2.5, 3.0, 4.5]).ok();

// Get array
let waypoints: Vec<f64> = ctx.params
    .get::<Vec<serde_json::Value>>("waypoints")
    .map(|v| v.iter().filter_map(|x| x.as_f64()).collect())
    .unwrap_or_default();
```

**Objects:**
```rust
use serde_json::json;

// Set nested object
let config = json!({
    "ip": "192.168.1.100",
    "port": 8080,
    "timeout_ms": 5000
});
ctx.params.set("network.config", config).ok();

// Get nested values
let ip = ctx.params.get_string("network.config.ip", "localhost");
let port = ctx.params.get_i32("network.config.port", 8080);
```

## Default Parameters

HORUS provides sensible defaults on first run:

```yaml
# ~/.horus/config/params.yaml (auto-generated)
motion:
  max_linear_velocity: 1.0
  max_angular_velocity: 1.0
  acceleration_limit: 0.5

sensors:
  lidar_rate_hz: 10
  camera_rate_hz: 30
  imu_rate_hz: 100

safety:
  emergency_stop_enabled: true
  collision_threshold: 0.5
  max_tilt_angle_deg: 30.0

control:
  pid_linear:
    kp: 1.0
    ki: 0.1
    kd: 0.01
  pid_angular:
    kp: 1.0
    ki: 0.1
    kd: 0.01
```

**Customization:**
1. File is created on first launch
2. Edit directly or use dashboard
3. Changes persist across restarts
4. Delete file to reset to defaults

## Managing Parameters

### Via Dashboard

**Web interface** (easiest method):

```bash
# Start dashboard
horus dashboard

# Navigate to Parameters tab
#  View all parameters
#  Edit values inline
#  Changes auto-save to disk
```

**Features:**
- Live editing with validation
- Type indicators (number/string/boolean)
- Export entire parameter set
- Import from YAML/JSON
- Delete individual parameters

See [Dashboard Guide](/dashboard#parameter-management) for API details.

### Via Code

**Manual save:**
```rust
// RuntimeParams saves automatically on set()
// But you can force a save
ctx.params.save_to_disk().ok();
```

**Manual load:**
```rust
// Reload from disk (useful after external edit)
ctx.params.load_from_disk().ok();
```

### Via File Edit

**Direct YAML editing:**

```bash
# Edit parameters file
vim ~/.horus/config/params.yaml

# Changes take effect:
# - Immediately if node reloads
# - On next restart if not
```

**Format:**
```yaml
# Use spaces (2 or 4), not tabs
motion:
  max_speed: 2.0        # number
  mode: "auto"          # string (quotes optional for simple strings)
  enabled: true         # boolean

sensors:
  rates: [10, 30, 100]  # array

# Comments are preserved
control:
  pid:
    kp: 1.0   # Proportional gain
    ki: 0.1   # Integral gain
    kd: 0.01  # Derivative gain
```

## Common Patterns

### PID Controller Tuning

```rust
node! {
    PIDController {
        data {
            kp: f64 = 1.0,
            ki: f64 = 0.1,
            kd: f64 = 0.01,
            integral: f64 = 0.0,
            last_error: f64 = 0.0
        }

        init(ctx) {
            // Load PID gains
            self.kp = ctx.params.get_f64("control.pid.kp", 1.0);
            self.ki = ctx.params.get_f64("control.pid.ki", 0.1);
            self.kd = ctx.params.get_f64("control.pid.kd", 0.01);

            ctx.log_info(&format!("PID: Kp={}, Ki={}, Kd={}", self.kp, self.ki, self.kd));
        }

        tick(ctx) {
            // Compute PID output
            let error = self.compute_error();
            self.integral += error;
            let derivative = error - self.last_error;

            let output = self.kp * error + self.ki * self.integral + self.kd * derivative;

            self.last_error = error;

            // Use output...
        }

        impl {
            fn compute_error(&self) -> f64 {
                // Your error calculation
                0.0
            }
        }
    }
}
```

**Tuning workflow:**
1. Start robot with default gains
2. Open dashboard  Parameters
3. Adjust `control.pid.kp/ki/kd` while robot runs
4. Observe behavior in dashboard metrics
5. Repeat until satisfactory
6. Parameters auto-save - done!

### Feature Flags

```rust
node! {
    AdvancedController {
        data {
            enable_obstacle_avoidance: bool = false,
            enable_path_planning: bool = false,
            enable_localization: bool = true
        }

        init(ctx) {
            self.enable_obstacle_avoidance = ctx.params.get_bool("features.obstacle_avoidance", false);
            self.enable_path_planning = ctx.params.get_bool("features.path_planning", false);
            self.enable_localization = ctx.params.get_bool("features.localization", true);
        }

        tick(ctx) {
            if self.enable_localization {
                self.update_localization();
            }

            if self.enable_obstacle_avoidance {
                self.avoid_obstacles();
            }

            if self.enable_path_planning {
                self.plan_path();
            }
        }

        impl {
            fn update_localization(&mut self) { /* ... */ }
            fn avoid_obstacles(&mut self) { /* ... */ }
            fn plan_path(&mut self) { /* ... */ }
        }
    }
}
```

### Environment-Specific Config

```rust
node! {
    NetworkNode {
        data {
            server_url: String = String::from("localhost:8080"),
            timeout_ms: u64 = 5000,
            retry_count: i32 = 3
        }

        init(ctx) {
            // Load environment-specific parameters
            let env = ctx.params.get_string("environment", "development");

            match env.as_str() {
                "production" => {
                    self.server_url = ctx.params.get_string("network.prod_url", "prod.example.com:8080");
                    self.timeout_ms = ctx.params.get_u64("network.prod_timeout_ms", 3000);
                },
                "staging" => {
                    self.server_url = ctx.params.get_string("network.staging_url", "staging.example.com:8080");
                    self.timeout_ms = ctx.params.get_u64("network.staging_timeout_ms", 5000);
                },
                _ => {
                    self.server_url = ctx.params.get_string("network.dev_url", "localhost:8080");
                    self.timeout_ms = ctx.params.get_u64("network.dev_timeout_ms", 10000);
                }
            }

            ctx.log_info(&format!("Connecting to {} (timeout: {}ms)", self.server_url, self.timeout_ms));
        }
    }
}
```

### Rate Limiting

```rust
node! {
    SensorPublisher {
        data {
            publish_rate_hz: u64 = 10,
            last_publish: std::time::Instant = std::time::Instant::now()
        }

        init(ctx) {
            self.publish_rate_hz = ctx.params.get_u64("sensors.publish_rate_hz", 10);
            ctx.log_info(&format!("Publishing at {} Hz", self.publish_rate_hz));
        }

        tick(ctx) {
            let interval = std::time::Duration::from_millis(1000 / self.publish_rate_hz);

            if self.last_publish.elapsed() >= interval {
                // Publish sensor data
                self.publish_data(ctx);
                self.last_publish = std::time::Instant::now();
            }
        }

        impl {
            fn publish_data(&mut self, ctx: Option<&mut NodeInfo>) {
                // Publishing logic
            }
        }
    }
}
```

## Best Practices

### Naming Conventions

**Use hierarchical structure:**
```yaml
# Good
motion:
  max_linear_velocity: 1.5
  max_angular_velocity: 2.0
control:
  pid:
    kp: 1.0
    ki: 0.1

# Bad
max_linear_velocity: 1.5
max_angular_velocity: 2.0
pid_kp: 1.0
pid_ki: 0.1
```

**Use descriptive names:**
```yaml
# Good
sensors:
  lidar_scan_rate_hz: 10
  camera_resolution_width: 1920

# Bad
sensors:
  rate: 10
  w: 1920
```

**Use consistent casing:**
```yaml
# Good (snake_case)
motion:
  max_speed: 1.5
  acceleration_limit: 0.5

# Bad (mixed casing)
motion:
  maxSpeed: 1.5
  acceleration_limit: 0.5
```

### Always Provide Defaults

**Never crash on missing parameters:**

```rust
// Good - provides fallback
let speed = ctx.params.get_f64("motion.max_speed", 1.5);

// Bad - panics if missing
let speed = ctx.params.get::<f64>("motion.max_speed").unwrap();
```

**Use sensible defaults:**
```rust
// Good - safe defaults
let emergency_stop = ctx.params.get_bool("safety.emergency_stop", true);  // Default to safe state
let max_speed = ctx.params.get_f64("motion.max_speed", 1.0);  // Default to slow

// Bad - unsafe defaults
let emergency_stop = ctx.params.get_bool("safety.emergency_stop", false);  // Unsafe!
let max_speed = ctx.params.get_f64("motion.max_speed", 100.0);  // Too fast!
```

### Document Parameters

**Add comments in YAML:**
```yaml
motion:
  # Maximum linear velocity in m/s (default: 1.5)
  max_linear_velocity: 1.5

  # Maximum angular velocity in rad/s (default: 2.0)
  max_angular_velocity: 2.0

control:
  pid:
    # Proportional gain - affects responsiveness (range: 0.1-10.0)
    kp: 1.0

    # Integral gain - affects steady-state error (range: 0.01-1.0)
    ki: 0.1

    # Derivative gain - affects damping (range: 0.001-0.1)
    kd: 0.01
```

**Add documentation in code:**
```rust
init(ctx) {
    // Load PID gains (tuning range: Kp=0.1-10, Ki=0.01-1, Kd=0.001-0.1)
    self.kp = ctx.params.get_f64("control.pid.kp", 1.0);
    self.ki = ctx.params.get_f64("control.pid.ki", 0.1);
    self.kd = ctx.params.get_f64("control.pid.kd", 0.01);
}
```

### Validate Parameter Values

**Add bounds checking:**
```rust
init(ctx) {
    // Load with validation
    let speed = ctx.params.get_f64("motion.max_speed", 1.5);

    // Clamp to safe range
    self.max_speed = speed.max(0.0).min(5.0);  // 0-5 m/s

    if speed != self.max_speed {
        ctx.log_warning(&format!(
            "max_speed {} out of range, clamped to {}",
            speed, self.max_speed
        ));
    }
}
```

### Export Parameter Sets

**Create presets for different scenarios:**

```bash
# Save current parameters to preset
horus dashboard
#  Parameters tab  Export  Save as "aggressive_tuning.yaml"

# Switch to different preset
cp ~/.horus/config/params.yaml ~/.horus/config/params_backup.yaml
cp aggressive_tuning.yaml ~/.horus/config/params.yaml

# Restart application to load new parameters
```

## Troubleshooting

### Parameters Not Loading

**Problem:** Parameters show default values even though YAML file exists.

**Cause:** YAML syntax error or file permissions.

**Solution:**
```bash
# Check YAML syntax
cat ~/.horus/config/params.yaml

# Validate YAML
yamllint ~/.horus/config/params.yaml

# Check permissions
ls -la ~/.horus/config/params.yaml

# Should be readable
chmod 644 ~/.horus/config/params.yaml
```

### Parameters Not Saving

**Problem:** Changes in dashboard don't persist.

**Cause:** Config directory doesn't exist or lacks write permissions.

**Solution:**
```bash
# Create config directory
mkdir -p ~/.horus/config

# Set permissions
chmod 755 ~/.horus/config

# Manually save from code
ctx.params.save_to_disk().ok();
```

### Type Mismatch

**Problem:** Parameter exists but wrong type.

**Error:**
```
Parameter 'motion.max_speed' expected f64, got String
```

**Solution:**

Check YAML format:
```yaml
# Wrong - string
max_speed: "1.5"

# Correct - number
max_speed: 1.5
```

Or use type conversion in code:
```rust
// Try as number first, then parse string as fallback
let speed = ctx.params.get_f64("motion.max_speed", 1.5);
```

### Lost Parameters After Update

**Problem:** Parameters reset to defaults after code update.

**Cause:** Defaults overwrite file on initialization.

**Solution:**

Backup parameters before updating:
```bash
# Backup
cp ~/.horus/config/params.yaml ~/.horus/config/params_backup.yaml

# After update, restore if needed
cp ~/.horus/config/params_backup.yaml ~/.horus/config/params.yaml
```

## Performance Considerations

### Access Speed

Parameters use `Arc<RwLock<BTreeMap>>`:

- **Read**: ~80-350ns (read lock + BTreeMap lookup)
- **Write**: ~100-500ns (write lock + BTreeMap insert + potential save)
- **Thread-safe**: Multiple nodes can read simultaneously

**Fast enough for:**
- Loading parameters in `init()` (one-time)
- Checking parameters every tick (60 Hz)
- Checking parameters every 100 ticks (~1 second)

**Too slow for:**
- Reading hundreds of parameters every tick
- Using as real-time message passing (use `Hub` instead)

### Caching Strategy

**Good: Cache and reload periodically**
```rust
data {
    max_speed: f64 = 1.5,
    reload_counter: u64 = 0
}

tick(ctx) {
    // Reload every 60 ticks (~1 second)
    if self.reload_counter % 60 == 0 {
        self.max_speed = ctx.params.get_f64("motion.max_speed", 1.5);
    }
    self.reload_counter += 1;

    // Use cached value
    let velocity = calculate_velocity(self.max_speed);
}
```

**Bad: Read every tick unnecessarily**
```rust
tick(ctx) {
    // Wasteful - reads same value 60 times per second
    let max_speed = ctx.params.get_f64("motion.max_speed", 1.5);
}
```

## Next Steps

- **[Dashboard Guide](/dashboard)** - Manage parameters via web interface
- **[node! Macro Guide](/node-macro)** - Learn about `init()` and `tick()` hooks
- **[Examples](/examples)** - See real-world parameter usage
- **[CLI Reference](/cli-reference)** - Command-line parameter tools
