docs-site/content/docs/remote-deployment.mdx, before:

---
title: Remote Deployment
description: Deploy HORUS applications to physical robots over the network
order: 12
---

# Remote Deployment

> **Note**: Remote deployment requires `horus_daemon` running on the target robot. Local execution works immediately.

Deploy your HORUS applications to physical robots, edge devices, and remote hardware over the network. Build locally, run remotely with a single command.

## Overview

Remote deployment allows you to:

- **Deploy to robots** - Run code on physical hardware from your dev machine
- **Cross-compile** - Build for different architectures (ARM, x86_64)
- **Monitor remotely** - View logs and metrics over network
- **Hot reload** - Update code without physical access
- **Manage fleets** - Deploy to multiple robots simultaneously

**Architecture:**
```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ Dev Machine     │                    │ Robot            │
│                 │                    │                  │
│ horus run       │──── WiFi/LAN ────→│ horus_daemon      │
│ --remote robot  │      HTTP          │                  │
│                 │                    │ Builds & Runs    │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Quick Start

### On Robot (One-Time Setup)

```bash
# 1. Install HORUS
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
git clone <horus-repo>
cd HORUS
./install.sh

# 2. Start daemon
horus_daemon --port 8080
```

**Output:**
```
HORUS Daemon v0.1.0
Listening on: 0.0.0.0:8080
Ready for deployments
```

### From Dev Machine

```bash
# Deploy to robot
horus run --remote 192.168.1.100:8080 --release
```

**What happens:**
1. Packages project as tarball
2. Uploads to robot via HTTP POST
3. Robot builds code
4. Robot runs executable
5. Streams logs back to your terminal

## Daemon Setup

### Starting the Daemon

**Basic:**
```bash
horus_daemon
```

**With options:**
```bash
horus_daemon \
  --port 8080 \
  --host 0.0.0.0 \
  --workspace /var/horus/deployments
```

**Options:**
- `--port <PORT>` - HTTP port (default: 8080)
- `--host <HOST>` - Bind address (default: 0.0.0.0)
- `--workspace <DIR>` - Deployment directory (default: `/tmp/horus/deployments`)
- `--max-deployments <N>` - Max concurrent deployments (default: 5)
- `--log-level <LEVEL>` - debug, info, warn, error (default: info)

### Running as Service

**systemd service (`/etc/systemd/system/horus-daemon.service`):**
```ini
[Unit]
Description=HORUS Deployment Daemon
After=network.target

[Service]
Type=simple
User=horus
Group=horus
WorkingDirectory=/var/horus
ExecStart=/home/horus/.cargo/bin/horus_daemon --port 8080
Restart=always
RestartSec=5

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

**Enable and start:**
```bash
sudo systemctl enable horus-daemon
sudo systemctl start horus-daemon
sudo systemctl status horus-daemon
```

**View logs:**
```bash
sudo journalctl -u horus-daemon -f
```

### Security Configuration

**Firewall:**
```bash
# Allow daemon port
sudo ufw allow 8080/tcp

# Or restrict to specific IP
sudo ufw allow from 192.168.1.0/24 to any port 8080
```

**Authentication (recommended for production):**
```bash
horus_daemon \
  --port 8080 \
  --auth-token "your-secret-token-here"
```

**Deploy with authentication:**
```bash
horus run --remote robot:8080 --auth-token "your-secret-token-here"
```

## Deployment Workflow

### Basic Deployment

```bash
# Deploy to robot
horus run --remote 192.168.1.100:8080
```

**Output:**
```
Preparing deployment...
  ✓ Packaged project (245 KB)
  ✓ Uploaded to 192.168.1.100:8080
  ✓ Building on robot (release mode)

Build output:
   Compiling horus_core v0.1.0
   Compiling my_robot_controller v1.0.0
    Finished release [optimized] target(s) in 23.45s

  ✓ Build successful
  ✓ Starting execution

Robot logs:
[12:34:56.789] Registered node 'VelocityController' with priority 5
[12:34:56.790] Registered node 'MotorDriver' with priority 10
[12:34:56.791] Scheduler started
[12:34:56.792] [IPC: 296ns] VelocityController --PUB--> 'cmd_vel' = 1.5
[12:34:56.793] [IPC: 420ns] MotorDriver <--SUB-- 'cmd_vel' = 1.5

Press Ctrl+C to stop...
```

### Release vs Debug

**Debug (fast compile, slow execution):**
```bash
horus run --remote robot:8080
```

**Release (slow compile, fast execution):**
```bash
horus run --remote robot:8080 --release
```

**Recommendation:** Always use `--release` for real robot testing.

### Specific File

```bash
# Deploy specific file
horus run --remote robot:8080 examples/demo.rs --release
```

### With Arguments

```bash
# Pass arguments to your program
horus run --remote robot:8080 --release -- --config robot.yaml
```

### Build Only

```bash
# Build on robot but don't run
horus run --remote robot:8080 --build-only --release
```

## Managing Deployments

### List Active Deployments

```bash
# Query daemon
curl http://192.168.1.100:8080/deployments
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "deployments": [
    {
      "id": "deploy_abc123",
      "status": "running",
      "pid": 12345,
      "started_at": "2025-10-09T14:30:00Z",
      "project": "my_robot_controller",
      "release": true
    }
  ]
}
```

### Stop Deployment

```bash
# Stop specific deployment
curl -X POST http://192.168.1.100:8080/stop/deploy_abc123
```

**Or use Ctrl+C in the terminal where you ran `horus run --remote`**

### View Deployment Logs

```bash
# Get logs for specific deployment
curl http://192.168.1.100:8080/logs/deploy_abc123
```

## Fleet Management

### Deploy to Multiple Robots

**Shell script:**
```bash
#!/bin/bash
ROBOTS=(
    "192.168.1.100:8080"
    "192.168.1.101:8080"
    "192.168.1.102:8080"
)

for robot in "${ROBOTS[@]}"; do
    echo "Deploying to $robot..."
    horus run --remote $robot --release &
done

wait
echo "All deployments complete"
```

### Monitoring Multiple Robots

**Dashboard integration:**
```bash
# Robot 1
horus_daemon --port 8080 --dashboard-url http://monitor:3000

# Robot 2
horus_daemon --port 8080 --dashboard-url http://monitor:3000

# Central monitor
horus dashboard --port 3000
```

### Rolling Updates

**Zero-downtime deployment:**
```bash
#!/bin/bash
ROBOTS=("robot1:8080" "robot2:8080" "robot3:8080")

for robot in "${ROBOTS[@]}"; do
    echo "Updating $robot..."

    # Deploy new version
    horus run --remote $robot --release &
    pid=$!

    # Wait for startup
    sleep 5

    # Verify health
    if curl -f http://$robot/health; then
        echo "✓ $robot updated successfully"
    else
        echo "✗ $robot update failed"
        kill $pid
    fi
done
```

## Advanced Features

### Custom Build Environment

**Robot-side configuration:**
```bash
horus_daemon \
  --port 8080 \
  --rust-version nightly \
  --target armv7-unknown-linux-gnueabihf
```

### Persistent Deployments

**Run as background service:**
```bash
horus run --remote robot:8080 --release --daemon
```

**Output:**
```
Deployment started as daemon
  ID: deploy_abc123
  PID: 12345

Monitor with:
  curl http://robot:8080/logs/deploy_abc123

Stop with:
  curl -X POST http://robot:8080/stop/deploy_abc123
```

### Environment Variables

**Pass environment variables:**
```bash
horus run --remote robot:8080 --release \
  --env RUST_LOG=debug \
  --env ROBOT_ID=robot_01
```

### Custom Deployment Directory

**On robot:**
```bash
horus_daemon --workspace /opt/robot/deployments
```

**Persistent across reboots:**
```bash
horus_daemon --workspace /var/lib/horus --no-cleanup
```

## Daemon API

### Endpoints

**`POST /deploy`**

Upload and deploy a project.

**Request:**
```bash
tar czf project.tar.gz .
curl -X POST \
  -H "Content-Type: application/octet-stream" \
  --data-binary @project.tar.gz \
  http://robot:8080/deploy?release=true
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "deployment_id": "deploy_abc123",
  "status": "building",
  "message": "Deployment started"
}
```

**`GET /deployments`**

List all active deployments.

**`GET /deployment/:id`**

Get status of specific deployment.

**Response:**
```json
{
  "id": "deploy_abc123",
  "status": "running",
  "pid": 12345,
  "started_at": "2025-10-09T14:30:00Z",
  "project": "my_robot_controller",
  "release": true,
  "uptime_seconds": 3600
}
```

**`POST /stop/:id`**

Stop a running deployment.

**`GET /logs/:id`**

Get logs for deployment.

**Parameters:**
- `tail=100` - Last N lines
- `follow=true` - Stream logs

**`GET /health`**

Daemon health check.

**Response:**
```json
{
  "status": "healthy",
  "version": "0.1.0",
  "uptime_seconds": 86400,
  "active_deployments": 2,
  "cpu_usage": 15.3,
  "memory_usage_mb": 245
}
```

## Network Configuration

### Finding Robot IP

**On robot:**
```bash
# Get all IPs
ip addr show

# Or just WiFi
ip addr show wlan0 | grep inet

# Or hostname
hostname -I
```

**Common patterns:**
- WiFi: `192.168.1.x`
- Ethernet: `192.168.0.x`
- Hotspot: `10.0.0.x`

### Static IP (recommended)

**Ubuntu/Debian (`/etc/netplan/01-netcfg.yaml`):**
```yaml
network:
  version: 2
  ethernets:
    eth0:
      dhcp4: no
      addresses:
        - 192.168.1.100/24
      gateway4: 192.168.1.1
      nameservers:
        addresses: [8.8.8.8, 8.8.4.4]
```

**Apply:**
```bash
sudo netplan apply
```

### SSH Tunneling

**For robots behind NAT:**
```bash
# On dev machine
ssh -L 8080:localhost:8080 robot@robot-hostname

# Then deploy to localhost
horus run --remote localhost:8080
```

### VPN

**For remote access:**
```bash
# Connect to VPN
sudo openvpn --config robot-network.ovpn

# Deploy through VPN
horus run --remote 10.8.0.100:8080
```

## Cross-Compilation

### Build for ARM on x86

**Install target:**
```bash
rustup target add armv7-unknown-linux-gnueabihf
```

**Configure daemon:**
```bash
horus_daemon --target armv7-unknown-linux-gnueabihf
```

**Deploy:**
```bash
horus run --remote robot:8080 --release
```

### Supported Architectures

- `x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu` - Intel/AMD 64-bit
- `aarch64-unknown-linux-gnu` - ARM 64-bit (Raspberry Pi 4)
- `armv7-unknown-linux-gnueabihf` - ARM 32-bit (Raspberry Pi 3)
- `arm-unknown-linux-gnueabi` - ARM soft-float

## Troubleshooting

### Connection Refused

**Error:**
```
Error: Connection refused to 192.168.1.100:8080
```

**Causes:**
- Daemon not running
- Wrong IP or port
- Firewall blocking
- Robot offline

**Solutions:**
```bash
# Check daemon status on robot
systemctl status horus-daemon

# Check port
sudo lsof -i :8080

# Test connectivity
ping 192.168.1.100
telnet 192.168.1.100 8080

# Check firewall
sudo ufw status
sudo ufw allow 8080/tcp
```

### Build Failed on Robot

**Error:**
```
Error: Build failed on robot
  error: could not compile `my_project`
```

**Causes:**
- Missing dependencies
- Wrong Rust version
- Insufficient memory
- Disk full

**Solutions:**
```bash
# Check daemon logs on robot
journalctl -u horus-daemon -n 50

# Check disk space
df -h

# Check memory
free -h

# Install dependencies
sudo apt update && sudo apt install \
  build-essential \
  pkg-config \
  libudev-dev \
  libssl-dev \
  libasound2-dev

# Increase swap (if low memory)
sudo fallocate -l 2G /swapfile
sudo chmod 600 /swapfile
sudo mkswap /swapfile
sudo swapon /swapfile
```

### Deployment Timeout

**Error:**
```
Error: Deployment timeout
  No response from robot after 5 minutes
```

**Solutions:**
```bash
# Increase timeout
horus run --remote robot:8080 --timeout 600

# Check build progress
curl http://robot:8080/deployment/deploy_abc123

# Check logs
curl http://robot:8080/logs/deploy_abc123
```

### Permission Denied

**Error:**
```
Error: Permission denied
  Cannot write to deployment directory
```

**Solution on robot:**
```bash
# Fix permissions
sudo chown -R horus:horus /var/horus/deployments
sudo chmod 755 /var/horus/deployments
```

## Best Practices

### Development Workflow

**Local testing first:**
```bash
# 1. Test locally
horus run --release

# 2. If works, deploy to robot
horus run --remote robot:8080 --release
```

### Deployment Checklist

- Test locally first
- Use `--release` for real testing
- Verify network connectivity
- Check daemon is running
- Monitor logs during deployment
- Test robot behavior after deployment
- Keep backup of working version

### Monitoring

**Keep dashboard running:**
```bash
# On dev machine
horus dashboard

# Deploy to robot
horus run --remote robot:8080 --release

# Dashboard shows remote execution
```

### Version Control

**Tag releases:**
```bash
git tag v1.0.0
git push origin v1.0.0

# Deploy tagged version
git checkout v1.0.0
horus run --remote robot:8080 --release
```

## Next Steps

- **[Dashboard Guide](/dashboard)** - Monitor remote robots
- **[CLI Reference](/cli-reference)** - Command-line tools for deployment
- **[Environment Management](/environment-management)** - Deploy consistent environments
- **[Package Management](/package-management)** - Manage dependencies on remote robots
- **[Authentication](/authentication)** - Secure registry access

Commit message:

adding under development notation to certain pages in docs-site

docs-site/content/docs/remote-deployment.mdx, after:

---
title: Remote Deployment
description: Deploy HORUS applications to physical robots over the network
order: 12
---

# Remote Deployment

> **🚧 Under Development**: Remote deployment is currently under active development. Features and APIs may change. Check back for updates!

> **Note**: Remote deployment requires `horus_daemon` running on the target robot. Local execution works immediately.

Deploy your HORUS applications to physical robots, edge devices, and remote hardware over the network. Build locally, run remotely with a single command.

## Overview

Remote deployment allows you to:

- **Deploy to robots** - Run code on physical hardware from your dev machine
- **Cross-compile** - Build for different architectures (ARM, x86_64)
- **Monitor remotely** - View logs and metrics over network
- **Hot reload** - Update code without physical access
- **Manage fleets** - Deploy to multiple robots simultaneously

**Architecture:**
```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ Dev Machine     │                    │ Robot            │
│                 │                    │                  │
│ horus run       │──── WiFi/LAN ────→│ horus_daemon      │
│ --remote robot  │      HTTP          │                  │
│                 │                    │ Builds & Runs    │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Quick Start

### On Robot (One-Time Setup)

```bash
# 1. Install HORUS
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
git clone <horus-repo>
cd HORUS
./install.sh

# 2. Start daemon
horus_daemon --port 8080
```

**Output:**
```
HORUS Daemon v0.1.0
Listening on: 0.0.0.0:8080
Ready for deployments
```

### From Dev Machine

```bash
# Deploy to robot
horus run --remote 192.168.1.100:8080 --release
```

**What happens:**
1. Packages project as tarball
2. Uploads to robot via HTTP POST
3. Robot builds code
4. Robot runs executable
5. Streams logs back to your terminal

## Daemon Setup

### Starting the Daemon

**Basic:**
```bash
horus_daemon
```

**With options:**
```bash
horus_daemon \
  --port 8080 \
  --host 0.0.0.0 \
  --workspace /var/horus/deployments
```

**Options:**
- `--port <PORT>` - HTTP port (default: 8080)
- `--host <HOST>` - Bind address (default: 0.0.0.0)
- `--workspace <DIR>` - Deployment directory (default: `/tmp/horus/deployments`)
- `--max-deployments <N>` - Max concurrent deployments (default: 5)
- `--log-level <LEVEL>` - debug, info, warn, error (default: info)

### Running as Service

**systemd service (`/etc/systemd/system/horus-daemon.service`):**
```ini
[Unit]
Description=HORUS Deployment Daemon
After=network.target

[Service]
Type=simple
User=horus
Group=horus
WorkingDirectory=/var/horus
ExecStart=/home/horus/.cargo/bin/horus_daemon --port 8080
Restart=always
RestartSec=5

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

**Enable and start:**
```bash
sudo systemctl enable horus-daemon
sudo systemctl start horus-daemon
sudo systemctl status horus-daemon
```

**View logs:**
```bash
sudo journalctl -u horus-daemon -f
```

### Security Configuration

**Firewall:**
```bash
# Allow daemon port
sudo ufw allow 8080/tcp

# Or restrict to specific IP
sudo ufw allow from 192.168.1.0/24 to any port 8080
```

**Authentication (recommended for production):**
```bash
horus_daemon \
  --port 8080 \
  --auth-token "your-secret-token-here"
```

**Deploy with authentication:**
```bash
horus run --remote robot:8080 --auth-token "your-secret-token-here"
```

## Deployment Workflow

### Basic Deployment

```bash
# Deploy to robot
horus run --remote 192.168.1.100:8080
```

**Output:**
```
Preparing deployment...
  ✓ Packaged project (245 KB)
  ✓ Uploaded to 192.168.1.100:8080
  ✓ Building on robot (release mode)

Build output:
   Compiling horus_core v0.1.0
   Compiling my_robot_controller v1.0.0
    Finished release [optimized] target(s) in 23.45s

  ✓ Build successful
  ✓ Starting execution

Robot logs:
[12:34:56.789] Registered node 'VelocityController' with priority 5
[12:34:56.790] Registered node 'MotorDriver' with priority 10
[12:34:56.791] Scheduler started
[12:34:56.792] [IPC: 296ns] VelocityController --PUB--> 'cmd_vel' = 1.5
[12:34:56.793] [IPC: 420ns] MotorDriver <--SUB-- 'cmd_vel' = 1.5

Press Ctrl+C to stop...
```

### Release vs Debug

**Debug (fast compile, slow execution):**
```bash
horus run --remote robot:8080
```

**Release (slow compile, fast execution):**
```bash
horus run --remote robot:8080 --release
```

**Recommendation:** Always use `--release` for real robot testing.

### Specific File

```bash
# Deploy specific file
horus run --remote robot:8080 examples/demo.rs --release
```

### With Arguments

```bash
# Pass arguments to your program
horus run --remote robot:8080 --release -- --config robot.yaml
```

### Build Only

```bash
# Build on robot but don't run
horus run --remote robot:8080 --build-only --release
```

## Managing Deployments

### List Active Deployments

```bash
# Query daemon
curl http://192.168.1.100:8080/deployments
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "deployments": [
    {
      "id": "deploy_abc123",
      "status": "running",
      "pid": 12345,
      "started_at": "2025-10-09T14:30:00Z",
      "project": "my_robot_controller",
      "release": true
    }
  ]
}
```

### Stop Deployment

```bash
# Stop specific deployment
curl -X POST http://192.168.1.100:8080/stop/deploy_abc123
```

**Or use Ctrl+C in the terminal where you ran `horus run --remote`**

### View Deployment Logs

```bash
# Get logs for specific deployment
curl http://192.168.1.100:8080/logs/deploy_abc123
```

## Fleet Management

### Deploy to Multiple Robots

**Shell script:**
```bash
#!/bin/bash
ROBOTS=(
    "192.168.1.100:8080"
    "192.168.1.101:8080"
    "192.168.1.102:8080"
)

for robot in "${ROBOTS[@]}"; do
    echo "Deploying to $robot..."
    horus run --remote $robot --release &
done

wait
echo "All deployments complete"
```

### Monitoring Multiple Robots

**Dashboard integration:**
```bash
# Robot 1
horus_daemon --port 8080 --dashboard-url http://monitor:3000

# Robot 2
horus_daemon --port 8080 --dashboard-url http://monitor:3000

# Central monitor
horus dashboard --port 3000
```

### Rolling Updates

**Zero-downtime deployment:**
```bash
#!/bin/bash
ROBOTS=("robot1:8080" "robot2:8080" "robot3:8080")

for robot in "${ROBOTS[@]}"; do
    echo "Updating $robot..."

    # Deploy new version
    horus run --remote $robot --release &
    pid=$!

    # Wait for startup
    sleep 5

    # Verify health
    if curl -f http://$robot/health; then
        echo "✓ $robot updated successfully"
    else
        echo "✗ $robot update failed"
        kill $pid
    fi
done
```

## Advanced Features

### Custom Build Environment

**Robot-side configuration:**
```bash
horus_daemon \
  --port 8080 \
  --rust-version nightly \
  --target armv7-unknown-linux-gnueabihf
```

### Persistent Deployments

**Run as background service:**
```bash
horus run --remote robot:8080 --release --daemon
```

**Output:**
```
Deployment started as daemon
  ID: deploy_abc123
  PID: 12345

Monitor with:
  curl http://robot:8080/logs/deploy_abc123

Stop with:
  curl -X POST http://robot:8080/stop/deploy_abc123
```

### Environment Variables

**Pass environment variables:**
```bash
horus run --remote robot:8080 --release \
  --env RUST_LOG=debug \
  --env ROBOT_ID=robot_01
```

### Custom Deployment Directory

**On robot:**
```bash
horus_daemon --workspace /opt/robot/deployments
```

**Persistent across reboots:**
```bash
horus_daemon --workspace /var/lib/horus --no-cleanup
```

## Daemon API

### Endpoints

**`POST /deploy`**

Upload and deploy a project.

**Request:**
```bash
tar czf project.tar.gz .
curl -X POST \
  -H "Content-Type: application/octet-stream" \
  --data-binary @project.tar.gz \
  http://robot:8080/deploy?release=true
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "deployment_id": "deploy_abc123",
  "status": "building",
  "message": "Deployment started"
}
```

**`GET /deployments`**

List all active deployments.

**`GET /deployment/:id`**

Get status of specific deployment.

**Response:**
```json
{
  "id": "deploy_abc123",
  "status": "running",
  "pid": 12345,
  "started_at": "2025-10-09T14:30:00Z",
  "project": "my_robot_controller",
  "release": true,
  "uptime_seconds": 3600
}
```

**`POST /stop/:id`**

Stop a running deployment.

**`GET /logs/:id`**

Get logs for deployment.

**Parameters:**
- `tail=100` - Last N lines
- `follow=true` - Stream logs

**`GET /health`**

Daemon health check.

**Response:**
```json
{
  "status": "healthy",
  "version": "0.1.0",
  "uptime_seconds": 86400,
  "active_deployments": 2,
  "cpu_usage": 15.3,
  "memory_usage_mb": 245
}
```

## Network Configuration

### Finding Robot IP

**On robot:**
```bash
# Get all IPs
ip addr show

# Or just WiFi
ip addr show wlan0 | grep inet

# Or hostname
hostname -I
```

**Common patterns:**
- WiFi: `192.168.1.x`
- Ethernet: `192.168.0.x`
- Hotspot: `10.0.0.x`

### Static IP (recommended)

**Ubuntu/Debian (`/etc/netplan/01-netcfg.yaml`):**
```yaml
network:
  version: 2
  ethernets:
    eth0:
      dhcp4: no
      addresses:
        - 192.168.1.100/24
      gateway4: 192.168.1.1
      nameservers:
        addresses: [8.8.8.8, 8.8.4.4]
```

**Apply:**
```bash
sudo netplan apply
```

### SSH Tunneling

**For robots behind NAT:**
```bash
# On dev machine
ssh -L 8080:localhost:8080 robot@robot-hostname

# Then deploy to localhost
horus run --remote localhost:8080
```

### VPN

**For remote access:**
```bash
# Connect to VPN
sudo openvpn --config robot-network.ovpn

# Deploy through VPN
horus run --remote 10.8.0.100:8080
```

## Cross-Compilation

### Build for ARM on x86

**Install target:**
```bash
rustup target add armv7-unknown-linux-gnueabihf
```

**Configure daemon:**
```bash
horus_daemon --target armv7-unknown-linux-gnueabihf
```

**Deploy:**
```bash
horus run --remote robot:8080 --release
```

### Supported Architectures

- `x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu` - Intel/AMD 64-bit
- `aarch64-unknown-linux-gnu` - ARM 64-bit (Raspberry Pi 4)
- `armv7-unknown-linux-gnueabihf` - ARM 32-bit (Raspberry Pi 3)
- `arm-unknown-linux-gnueabi` - ARM soft-float

## Troubleshooting

### Connection Refused

**Error:**
```
Error: Connection refused to 192.168.1.100:8080
```

**Causes:**
- Daemon not running
- Wrong IP or port
- Firewall blocking
- Robot offline

**Solutions:**
```bash
# Check daemon status on robot
systemctl status horus-daemon

# Check port
sudo lsof -i :8080

# Test connectivity
ping 192.168.1.100
telnet 192.168.1.100 8080

# Check firewall
sudo ufw status
sudo ufw allow 8080/tcp
```

### Build Failed on Robot

**Error:**
```
Error: Build failed on robot
  error: could not compile `my_project`
```

**Causes:**
- Missing dependencies
- Wrong Rust version
- Insufficient memory
- Disk full

**Solutions:**
```bash
# Check daemon logs on robot
journalctl -u horus-daemon -n 50

# Check disk space
df -h

# Check memory
free -h

# Install dependencies
sudo apt update && sudo apt install \
  build-essential \
  pkg-config \
  libudev-dev \
  libssl-dev \
  libasound2-dev

# Increase swap (if low memory)
sudo fallocate -l 2G /swapfile
sudo chmod 600 /swapfile
sudo mkswap /swapfile
sudo swapon /swapfile
```

### Deployment Timeout

**Error:**
```
Error: Deployment timeout
  No response from robot after 5 minutes
```

**Solutions:**
```bash
# Increase timeout
horus run --remote robot:8080 --timeout 600

# Check build progress
curl http://robot:8080/deployment/deploy_abc123

# Check logs
curl http://robot:8080/logs/deploy_abc123
```

### Permission Denied

**Error:**
```
Error: Permission denied
  Cannot write to deployment directory
```

**Solution on robot:**
```bash
# Fix permissions
sudo chown -R horus:horus /var/horus/deployments
sudo chmod 755 /var/horus/deployments
```

## Best Practices

### Development Workflow

**Local testing first:**
```bash
# 1. Test locally
horus run --release

# 2. If works, deploy to robot
horus run --remote robot:8080 --release
```

### Deployment Checklist

- Test locally first
- Use `--release` for real testing
- Verify network connectivity
- Check daemon is running
- Monitor logs during deployment
- Test robot behavior after deployment
- Keep backup of working version

### Monitoring

**Keep dashboard running:**
```bash
# On dev machine
horus dashboard

# Deploy to robot
horus run --remote robot:8080 --release

# Dashboard shows remote execution
```

### Version Control

**Tag releases:**
```bash
git tag v1.0.0
git push origin v1.0.0

# Deploy tagged version
git checkout v1.0.0
horus run --remote robot:8080 --release
```

## Next Steps

- **[Dashboard Guide](/dashboard)** - Monitor remote robots
- **[CLI Reference](/cli-reference)** - Command-line tools for deployment
- **[Environment Management](/environment-management)** - Deploy consistent environments
- **[Package Management](/package-management)** - Manage dependencies on remote robots
- **[Authentication](/authentication)** - Secure registry access
